                       Universally Composable Security:
                  A New Paradigm for Cryptographic Protocols∗
                                                 Ran Canetti†

                                             February 11, 2020



                                                   Abstract
         We present a general framework for describing cryptographic protocols and analyzing their
      security. The framework allows specifying the security requirements of practically any crypto-
      graphic task in a unified and systematic way. Furthermore, in this framework the security of
      protocols is preserved under a general composition operation, called universal composition.
         The proposed framework with its security-preserving composition operation allows for mod-
      ular design and analysis of complex cryptographic protocols from simpler building blocks. More-
      over, within this framework, protocols are guaranteed to maintain their security in any context,
      even in the presence of an unbounded number of arbitrary protocol sessions that run concur-
      rently in an adversarially controlled manner. This is a useful guarantee, which allows arguing
      about the security of cryptographic protocols in complex and unpredictable environments such
      as modern communication networks.


Keywords: cryptographic protocols, security analysis, protocol composition, universal composi-
tion.




  ∗
     An extended abstract of this work appears in the proceedings of the 42nd Foundations of Computer Science
conference, 2001. This is an updated version. While the overall spirit and the structure of the definitions and
results in this paper has remained the same, many important details have changed. We point out and motivate
the main differences as we go along. Earlier versions of this work appeared in December 2018, July 2013, Decem-
ber and January 2005, and October 2001, under the same title, and in December 2000 under the title “A unified
framework for analyzing security of protocols”. These earlier versions can be found at the ECCC archive, TR 01-16
(http://eccc.uni-trier.de/eccc-reports/2001/TR01-016); however they are not needed for understanding this work and
have only historic significance.
   †
     Boston University and Tel Aviv University. Member of CPIIS. Supported by the NSF MACS project and ISF
Grant 1523/14.
Contents
1 Introduction                                                                                          1
  1.1 The definitional approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
  1.2 Universal Composition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
  1.3 Making the framework useful: Simplicity and Expressibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            7
  1.4 Overview of the rest of this paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      9

2 Warmup: A simplified model                                                                            9
  2.1 Machines and Protocols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       10
  2.2 Defining security of protocols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     12
      2.2.1 Protocol execution and protocol emulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            12
      2.2.2 Realizing deal functionalities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       17
  2.3 Universal Composition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      18

3 The model of computation                                                                             20
  3.1 The basic model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      21
      3.1.1 Interactive Turing Machines (ITMs) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           21
      3.1.2 Executing ITMs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         23
  3.2 Polynomial time ITMs and parameterized systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             27
  3.3 Discussion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
      3.3.1 Motivating the use of ITMs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         31
      3.3.2 On the identity mechanism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          32
      3.3.3 On the external-write mechanism and the control function . . . . . . . . . . .             34
      3.3.4 On capturing resource-bounded computations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             37

4 Protocol execution and UC-emulation                                                                  39
  4.1 The model of protocol execution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        39
  4.2 UC-emulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     41
  4.3 Alternative formulations of UC-emulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         43
      4.3.1 Emulation with respect to the dummy adversary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              44
      4.3.2 Emulation with respect to black-box simulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           48
      4.3.3 Letting the simulator depend on the environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            49
  4.4 Some Variants of UC-emulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        50
  4.5 UC-emulation is transitive . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     52

5 Defining security of protocols                                                                       52
  5.1 Structured protocols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     53
  5.2 Subroutine respecting protocols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      54
  5.3 Realizing ideal functionalities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    56

6 Universal composition                                                                           58
  6.1 The universal composition operation and theorem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
  6.2 Proof of Theorem 22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62


                                                   2
         6.2.1 Proof outline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
         6.2.2 A detailed proof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
   6.3   Discussion and extensions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

7 UC formulations of some computational models                                                        72
  7.1 Modeling party corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     72
      7.1.1 Some corruption models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        74
  7.2 Writing ideal functionalities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   76
  7.3 Some communication models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         78
      7.3.1 Authenticated Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           78
      7.3.2 Secure Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        81
      7.3.3 Synchronous communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           83
  7.4 Non-concurrent Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     87

A Related work                                                                                        99

B Previous versions of this work                                                                      102
1    Introduction
Rigorously demonstrating that a protocol “does its job securely” is an essential component of
cryptographic protocol design. Doing so requires coming up with an appropriate mathematical
model for representing protocols, and then formulating, within that model, a definition of security
that captures the requirements of the task at hand. Once such a definition is in place, we can
show that a protocol “does its job securely” by demonstrating that its mathematical representation
satisfies the definition of security within the devised mathematical model.
    However, devising a good mathematical model for representing protocols, and even more so
formulating adequate definitions of security within the devised model, turns out to be a tricky
business. First, the model should be rich enough to represent all realistic adversarial behaviors,
as well as the plethora of prevalent design techniques for distributed systems and networks. Next,
the definition should guarantee that the intuitive notion of security is captured with respect to any
adversarial behavior under consideration.
    One main challenge in formulating the security of cryptographic protocols is capturing the
threats coming from the execution environment, and in particular potential “bad interactions”
with other protocols that are running in the same system or network. Another, related challenge
is the need to come up with notions of security that allow for modular design of cryptographic
protocols and applications from simpler building blocks in a way that guarantees overall security.
Addressing these challenges is the focal point of this work.
    Initial definitions of security for specific cryptographic tasks (e.g. [gm84, gmra89]) consid-
ered models which capture only a single execution of the analyzed protocol. This is indeed a
good choice for first-cut definitions of security. In particular, it allows for relatively concise and
intuitive problem statement, and for simpler analysis of protocols. However, in many cases it
turned out that these initial definitions were insufficient when used within contexts and appli-
cations of interest. Examples include Encryption, where the basic notion of semantic security
[gm84] was later augmented with several flavors of security against chosen ciphertext attacks
[ny90, ddn00, rs91, bdpr98] in order to address general protocol settings; Commitment, where the
original notions were later augmented with some flavors of non-malleability [ddn00, dio98, ff00]
and equivocation [bcc88, b96] in order to address the requirement of some applications; Zero-
Knowledge protocols, where the original notions [gmra89] were shown not to be closed under com-
position, and new notions and constructions were needed [go94, gk89, f91, dns98, rk99, bggl04];
Key Exchange, where the original notions allow protocols that fail to provide secure commu-
nication, even when combined with secure symmetric encryption and authentication protocols
[br93, bck98, sh99, ck01, gl01]; Oblivious Transfer [r81, egl85, gm00] and secure multiparty
funtion evaluation [gl90, b91, mr91, pw00, c00, dm00, g04] where the first definitions do not
guarantee security under concurrent composition.
    One way to capture the security concerns that arise in a specific protocol environment or in a
given application is to directly represent the given environment or application within an extended
definition of security. Such an approach is taken, for instance in the cases of key-exchange [br93,
ck01, gl01], non-malleable commitments [ddn00], concurrent zero-knowledge [dns98], and general
concurrently secure protocols [p04, bs05] where the definitions explicitly model several adversarially
coordinated sessions of the protocol in question. This approach, however, results in definitions
with ever-growing complexity, and whose scope is inherently limited to specific environments and
concerns.
    An alternative approach, taken in this work, is to use definitions that consider the protocol in
isolation, but guarantee secure composition. In other words, here definitions of security refer only

                                                  1
to a single session of the protocol “in vitro”. Security “in vivo”, namely in more realistic settings
where a protocol session may run concurrently with other protocols, is obtained by formulating the
definitions of security in a way that guarantees the preservation of security under a general com-
position operation on protocols. This approach considerably simplifies the process of formulating
a definition of security and analyzing protocols. Furthermore, it guarantees security in arbitrary
protocol environments, even ones which have not been explicitly considered.
    In order to make such an approach meaningful, we first need to have a general framework
for representing cryptographic protocols and their security properties. Indeed, otherwise it is not
clear what “preserving security when running alongside other protocols” means, especially when
these other protocols and their security properties are arbitrary. Several general definitions of
secure protocols were developed over the years, e.g. [gl90, mr91, b91, bcg93, pw94, c00, hm00,
psw00, dm00, pw00]. These definitions are obvious candidates for such a general framework.
However, the composition operations considered in those works fall short of guaranteeing general
secure composition of cryptographic protocols, especially in settings where security holds only for
computationally bounded adversaries and multiple protocol sessions may be running concurrently
in an adversarially coordinated way. We further elaborate on these works and their relation to the
present one in Appendix A.
    This work proposes yet another framework for representing and analyzing the security of cryp-
tographic protocols. Within this framework, we formulate a general methodology for expressing the
security requirements of cryptographic tasks. Furthermore, we define a general formal operation for
composing protocols, and show that notions of security expressed within this framework preserve
security under this composition operation. We call this composition operation universal composition
and say that definitions of security in this framework (and the protocols that satisfy them) are uni-
versally composable (UC). Consequently, we dub this framework the UC security framework.1 As we
shall see, the fact that security in this framework is preserved under universal composition implies
that a secure protocol for some task remains secure even it is running in an arbitrary and un-
known multi-party, multi-execution environment. In particular, this implies significantly stronger
and more general variants of some standard security concerns, such as non-malleability and secu-
rity under concurrent composition: Here security is preserved even with respect to an unbounded
number of sessions of either the same protocol or other protocols.
    A fair number of frameworks for defining security of protocols in a way that guarantees security-
preserving composition have been proposed since the first publication of this work [c01]. Many of
these works are influenced by this work, and many of them influenced later versions of this work,
this one included. Here let us mention only [n03, ps04, w05, k06, bpw07, cdpw07, mr11, kt13,
mt13, hs11, ccl15]. Specific influences are mentioned when relevant.
    The rest of the introduction is organized as follows. Section 1.1 presents the basic definitional
approach and the ideas underlying the formalism. Section 1.2 presents the universal composition
operation and theorem. Section 1.3 discusses the issues associated with instantiating the general
approach within a framework that is both expressive and usable. Related work, including both
prior work and work that was done following the publication of the first version of this work, is
reviewed in Appendix A.
   1
    We use similar names for two very different objects: A notion of security and a composition operation. We do
so since we believe that the two are intimately tied together. We note that elsewhere (e.g. [g04, Section 7.7.2])
the terminology is decoupled, with security being called environmental security and composition being articulated as
concurrent.




                                                         2
1.1    The definitional approach
We briefly sketch the proposed framework and highlight some of its properties. The overall defini-
tional approach is the same as in most other general definitional frameworks mentioned above, and
goes back to the seminal work of Goldreich, Micali and Wigderson [gmw87]: In order to determine
whether a given protocol is secure for some cryptographic task, first envision an ideal process for
carrying out the task in a secure way. In the ideal process all parties hand their inputs to a trusted
party who locally computes the outputs, and hands each party its prescribed output. This ideal
process can be regarded as a “formal specification” of the security requirements of the task. A
protocol is said to securely realize the task if running the protocol “emulates” the ideal process for
the task, in the sense that any “damage” that can be caused by an adversary interacting with the
protocol can also be caused by an adversary in the ideal process for the task.

Prior formalisms. Several formalizations of this general definitional approach exist, including
the definitional works mentioned above. These formalisms provide a range of secure composability
guarantees in a variety of computational models. To better understand the present framework, we
first briefly sketch the definitional framework of [c00], which provides a basic instantiation of the
“ideal process paradigm” for the traditional task of secure function evaluation, namely evaluating
a known function of the secret inputs of the parties in a synchronous and ideally authenticated
network.
     A protocol is a computer program (or several programs), intended to be executed by a number
of communicating computational entities, or parties. In accordance, the model of protocol execution
consists of a set of interacting computing elements, each running the protocol on its own local input
and making its own random choices. (The same model is considered also in [g04, Section 7.5.1].)
Throughout the introduction, we refer to these elements as machines.2 An additional computing
element, called the adversary, represents an entity that controls some subset of the parties and in
addition has some control over the communication network. The machines running the protocol and
adversary interact (i.e., exchange messages) in some specified manner, until each entity eventually
generates local output. The concatenation of the local outputs of the adversary and all parties is
called the global output.
     In the ideal process for evaluating some function f , all parties ideally hand their inputs to an
incorruptible trusted party, who computes the function values and hands them to the parties as
specified. Here the adversary is limited to interacting with the trusted party in the name of the
corrupted parties. That is, the adversary determines the inputs of the corrupted parties and learns
their outputs.
     Protocol π securely evaluates a function f if for any adversary A (that interacts with the protocol
and controls some of the parties) there exists an ideal-process adversary S, that controls the same
parties as A, such that the following holds: For any input values given to the parties, the global
output of running π with A is indistinguishable from the global output of the ideal process for f
with adversary S.
     This definition suffices for capturing the security of protocols in a “stand-alone” setting where
only a single protocol session runs in isolation. Indeed, if π securely evaluates f , then the parties
running π are guaranteed to generate outputs that are indistinguishable from the values of f on
  2
    Formally, these elements are modeled as interactive Turing machines (ITMs). However, the specific choice of
Turing machines as the underlying computational model is somewhat arbitrary. Any other imperative model that
provides a concrete way to measure the complexity of realistic computations would be adequate, the RAM and PRAM
models being quintessential examples.


                                                      3
the same inputs. Furthermore, the only pertinent information learned by any set of corrupted
parties is their own inputs and outputs from the computation, in the sense that the output of any
adversary that controls the corrupted parties is indistinguishable from an output generated (by
a simulator) given only the relevant inputs and outputs. However, this definition provides only
limited guarantees regarding the security of systems that involve the execution of two or more
protocols. Specifically, general secure composition is guaranteed only as long as no two protocol
sessions that run concurrently are subject to a coordinated attack against them. Indeed, there are
natural protocols that meet the [c00] definition but are insecure when as few as two sessions are
active at the same time and subject to a coordinated attack against them. We refer the reader
to [c00, c06] for more discussions on the implications of, and motivation for, this definitional
approach. Some examples for the failure to preserve security under concurrent composition are
given in [c06, c13].

The UC framework. The UC framework preserves the overall structure of the above approach.
The difference lies in new formulations of the model of computation and the notion of “emulation”.
As a preliminary step towards presenting these new formulations, we first present an alternative
and equivalent formulation of the [c00] definition. In that formulation a new algorithmic entity,
called the environment machine, is added to the model of computation. (The environment machine
represents whatever is external to the current protocol execution. This includes other protocol
executions and their adversaries, human users, etc.) The environment interacts with the protocol
execution twice: First, before the execution starts, the environment hands arbitrary inputs of its
choosing to the parties and to the adversary. Next, once the execution terminates, the environment
collects the outputs from the parties and the adversary. Finally, the environment outputs a single
bit, which is interpreted as saying whether the environment thinks that it has interacted with the
protocol, π, or with the ideal process for f . Now, say that π securely evaluates a function f if
for any adversary A there exists an “ideal adversary” S such that no environment E can tell with
non-negligible probability whether it is interacting with π and A or with S and the ideal process
for f . (The above description corresponds to the static-corruptions variant of the [c00] definition,
where the set of corrupted parties is fixed in advance. In the case of adaptive corruption, the [c00]
definition allows some additional interaction between the environment and the protocol at the event
of corrupting a party.) The main difference between the UC framework and the basic framework of
[c00] is in the way the environment interacts with the adversary. Specifically, in the UC framework
the environment and the adversary are allowed to interact at any point throughout the course of
the protocol execution. In particular, they can exchange information after each message or output
generated by a party running the protocol. If protocol π securely realizes function f with respect
to this type of “interactive environment” then we say that π UC-realizes f .
    This seemingly small difference in the formulation of the models of computation is in fact very
significant. From a conceptual point of view, it represents the fact that the “flow of information”
between the protocol session under consideration and the rest of the system may happen at any time
during the run of the protocol, rather than only at input or output events. Furthermore, at each
point the information flow may be directed both “from the outside in” and “from the inside out”.
Modeling such “circular” information flow between the protocol and its environment is essential
for capturing the threats of a multi-session concurrent execution environment. (See some concrete
examples in [c06].)
    From a technical point of view, the environment now serves as an “interactive distinguisher”
between the protocol execution and the ideal process. This imposes a considerably more severe
restriction on the ideal adversary S, which is constructed in the proof of security: In order to make

                                                 4
sure that the environment E cannot tell the difference between a real protocol execution and the
ideal process, S now has to interact with E throughout the execution, just as A did. Furthermore, S
cannot “rewind” E, and thus it cannot “take back” information that it previously sent E. Indeed, it
is this pattern of intensive interaction between E and A that allows proving that security is preserved
under universal composition. (Indeed, this restriction on S is incompatible with the “black-box
simulation with rewinding” technique which underlies much of traditional cryptographic protocol
analysis; alternative techniques are thus called for.)
    An additional difference between the UC framework and the basic framework of [c00] is that the
UC framework allows capturing not only secure function evaluation but also reactive tasks where
new input values are received and new output values are generated throughout the computation.
Furthermore, new inputs may depend on previously generated outputs, and new outputs may de-
pend on all past inputs and local random choices. This is obtained by extending the “trusted party”
in the ideal process for secure function evaluation to constitute a general algorithmic entity called
an ideal functionality. The ideal functionality, which is modeled as another machine, repeatedly
receives inputs from the parties and provides them with appropriate output values, while main-
taining local state in between. This modeling guarantees that the outputs of the parties in the
ideal process have the expected properties with respect to their inputs, even when new inputs are
chosen adaptively based on previous outputs and the protocol communication. We note that this
extension of the model is “orthogonal” to the previous one, in the sense that either extension is
valid on its own (see e.g. [g04, Section 7.7.1.3] or Section 7.4). Other differences from [c00], such
as capturing different communication models and the ability to dynamically generate programs,
are discussed in later sections.

1.2    Universal Composition
As mentioned earlier on, the universal composition operation can be thought of as a natural ex-
tension of the “subroutine substitution” operation from the context of sequential algorithms to the
context of distributed protocols. Specifically, consider a protocol ρ where the parties make “subrou-
tine calls” to some ideal functionality F. That is, in addition to the standard set of instructions, ρ
may include instructions to provide F with some input value; furthermore, ρ contains instructions
for the case of obtaining outputs from F. (Recall that a session of ρ typically involves multiple
machines; this in particular means that a single session of F operates as a subroutine of multiple
machines.)
    Furthermore, we allow ρ to call multiple sessions of F, and even have multiple sessions of F
run concurrently. We provide ρ with a general mechanism for “naming” the sessions of F in order
to distinguish them from one another, but leave it up to ρ to decide on the actual naming method.
The sessions of F run independently of each other, without any additional coordination.
    Now, let π be a protocol that UC-realizes F, according to the above definition. Construct the
composed protocol ρF →π by starting with protocol ρ, and replacing each call to a session of F with
a call to a session of π. Specifically, an input given to a session of F is now given to a machine
in the corresponding session of π, and outputs of a machine in a session of π are treated by ρ as
outputs obtained from the corresponding session of F.3
   3
     In prior versions of this work, as well as elsewhere in the literature, the original protocol is denoted ρF and the
composed protocol is denoted ρπ . However that notation suggests a model operation that “attaches” some fixed
protocol (either F or π) to any subroutine call made by ρ. In contrast, we wish to consider situations where ρ makes
multiple subroutine calls, to different protocols, and where only calls to F are replaced by calls to π, whereas other
calls remain unaffected.



                                                           5
     The universal composition theorem states that running protocol ρF →π is “at least as secure” as
running the original protocol ρ. More precisely, it guarantees that for any adversary A there exists
an adversary S such that no environment machine can tell with non-negligible probability whether
it is interacting with A and parties running ρF →π , or with S and parties running ρ. In particular,
if ρ UC-realizes some ideal functionality G then so does ρF →π .
     Essentially, the universal composition theorem considers an environment that, together with the
adversary, runs a “coordinated attack” against the various sessions of π, along with the “high-level
part of ρF →π .” The theorem guarantees that any such coordinated attack can be translated to
an attack against the “high-level part of ρ” plus a set of attacks, where each such attack operates
separately against a single session of F.

On the universality of universal composition. Many different ways of “composing together”
protocols into larger systems are considered in the literature. Examples include sequential, parallel,
and concurrent composition, of varying number of protocol sessions, where the composed sessions
are run either by the same set of parties or by different sets of parties, use either the same program
or different programs, and have either the same input or different inputs (as in e.g. [dns98, ck02,
cf01, clos02]). A more detailed taxonomy and discussion appears in [c06, c13].
    All these composition methods can be captured as special cases of universal composition. That
is, any such method for composing together protocol sessions can be captured via an appropriate
“calling protocol” ρ that uses the appropriate number of protocol sessions as subroutines, provides
them with appropriately chosen inputs, and arranges for the appropriate synchronization in message
delivery among the various subroutine sessions. Consequently, it is guaranteed that a protocol that
UC-realizes an ideal functionality G continues to UC-realize G even when composed with other
protocols using any of the composition operations considered in the literature.
    Universal composition also allows formulating new ways to put together protocols (or, equiva-
lently, new ways to decompose complex systems into individual protocols). A salient example here
is the case where two or more protocol sessions have some “joint state”, or more generally “joint
subroutines”. Said otherwise, this is the case where a single session of some protocol γ serves as
a subroutine of two or more different sessions of protocol π. Furthermore, γ may also serve as a
subroutine of the “calling protocol” ρ or of other protocols in the system. Still, we would like to
be able to analyze each session separately in vitro, and deduce the security of the overall system -
in very much the same way as the traditional case where the sessions of π do not share any state.
Situations where this type of (de-)composition becomes useful include the commonplace settings
where multiple secure communication sessions use the same long-term authentication modules, or
where multiple protocol sessions use the same shared reference string or same randomly chosen
hash function. Universal composition in such situations was initially investigated in [cr03], for the
case of protocols that share subroutines only with other sessions of themselves, and in [cdpw07]
for the case of protocols that share subroutines with arbitrary, untrusted protocols. See further
discussion at the end of Section 2.

Implications of the composition theorem: Modularity and stronger security. Tradition-
ally, secure composition theorems are treated as tools for modular design and analysis of complex
protocols. (For instance, this is the main motivation in [mr91, c00, dm00, pw00, pw01].) That is,
given a complex task, first partition the task to several, simpler sub-tasks. Then, design protocols
for securely realizing the sub-tasks, and in addition design a protocol for realizing the given task
assuming that secure realization of the sub-tasks is possible. Finally, use the composition theorem


                                                  6
to argue that the protocol composed from the already-designed sub-protocols securely realizes the
given task. Note that in this interpretation the protocol designer knows in advance which protocol
sessions are running together and can control how protocols are scheduled.
    The above implication is indeed very useful. In addition, this work articulates another impli-
cation of the composition theorem, which is arguably stronger: Protocols that UC-realize some
functionality are guaranteed to continue doing so within any protocol environment - even environ-
ments that are not known a-priori, and even environments where the participants in a protocol
execution are unaware of other protocol sessions that may be running concurrently in the system
in an adversarially coordinated manner. This is a very useful (in fact, almost essential) security
guarantee for protocols that run in complex, unpredictable and adversarial environments such as
modern communication networks.

1.3   Making the framework useful: Simplicity and Expressibility
In order to turn the general definitional approach described in Sections 1.1 and 1.2 into an actual
definition of security that can be used to analyze protocols of interest, one has to first pinpoint
a formal model that allows representing protocols written for distributed systems. The model
should also allow formulating ideal functionalities, and make sure that there is a clear and natural
interpretation of these ideal functionalities as specifications (correctness, security and otherwise)
for tasks of interest. In particular, the model should allow rigorous representation of executions of
a protocol alongside an adversary and an environment, as well as the ideal processes for an ideal
functionality alongside a simulator and an environment, as outlined in Sections 1.1 and 1.2. In
addition, the model should allow representing the universal composition operation and asserting
the associated theorem.
    Devising such a model involves multiple “design choices” on various levels. These choices affect
the level of detail and formality of the resulting definition of security, its expressive power (in terms
of ability to capture different situations, tasks, and real-life protocols), its faithfulness (in terms of
ability to capture all realistic attacks), as well as the complexity of describing the definition and
working with it. The goal, of course, is to devise a model which is simple and intuitive, while
being as expressive and faithful to reality as possible; however, simplicity, expressive power, and
faithfulness are often at odds.
    This work presents two such models, providing two points of tradeoff among these desiderata.
The first model is a somewhat simplistic one, whose goal is to highlight the salient points in the
definitional approach with minimal formalism. This comes at the price of restricting the class
of protocols and tasks that can be naturally modeled. The second model is significantly more
expressive and general, at the price of some additional formalism. The rest of this section highlights
several of the definitional choices taken. More elaborate discussions of definitional choices appear
throughout this work.
    One aspect that is common to both models is the need to rigorously capture the notion of
“subroutine machines” and “subroutine protocol sessions”. (Here we use the term “machine” to
denote a computational entity without getting into specific details.) This in particular involves
making rigorous the concept of providing an input to a subroutine machine, obtaining output from
a subroutine machine, and a machine that is a subroutine of multiple machines.
    Next we mention three observations that are used in both models and significantly simplify
the treatment. The first observation is that there is no need to devise separate formalisms for
representing protocols and representing ideal functionalities. Similarly, there is no need to formalize
the ideal process separately from the process of protocol execution. Instead we allow representing

                                                    7
ideal functionalities as special cases of protocols. We then let the ideal process be the same as the
process of executing a protocol alongside an adversary and an environment, where the protocol is
one that represents an ideal functionality. One caveat here is that the model will need to formalize
the ability of machines to interact directly with the adversary, to enable representing the capabilities
of ideal functionalities.
    The second simplifying observation is that there is no need to directly formalize within the
basic model of computation an array of different corruption models, namely different ways by
which parties turn adversarial and deviate from the original protocol. (Traditional models here
are Honest-but-curious and Byzantine corruption models, where the set of corrupted parties is
chosen either statically or adaptively, as well as a variety of other attacks such as side-channel
leakage, coercion, transient break-ins, and others.) In fact, the basic model need not formally
model corruption at all. Instead, the different corruption models can be captured by having the
adversary deliver special corruption messages to parties, and considering protocols whose behavior
changes appropriately upon receipt of such messages.
    The third observation is that there is no need to directly formalize an array of communication
and synchronization models as separate models of computation. (Traditionally, such models would
include authenticated communication, private communication, synchronous communication, broad-
cast, etc.) Instead, communication can be captured by way of special ‘channel machines’ that are
subroutines of two or more other machines, where the latter machines represent the communicating
entities. Different communication models are then captured via different programs for the channel
machines, where these programs may include communication with the adversary. The meaningful-
ness of this approach is guaranteed by the UC theorem: Indeed, if we compose a protocol ρ that
was designed in a model where some communication abstraction is captured via an ideal function-
ality F, with a protocol π that UC-realizes F, where π operates in a communication model that is
captured via some ideal functionality G, then the composed protocol ρF →π is a protocol that uses
only calls to G, and at the same time UC-emulates ρ. This approach also provides flexibility in
expressing multiple variants of common communication models.
    The tradeoff between simplicity and expressibility comes to play in the level to which the formal
model captures dynamically changing systems and networks. In the first, simplistic variant of the
model, we postulate a static system with a fixed set of computational entities, with fixed identities
and programs, and where each such entity can communicate only with an a-priori fixed set of
entities with known identities. Similarly the sets of computational entities that constitute ‘protocol
sessions’ are fixed ahead of time.
    While this modeling is indeed simpler to present and argue about, it is not amenable to cap-
turing realistic settings where the number, the identities, the programs, and the connectivity of
computational entities changes as the system progresses. Natural examples include servers that
need to interact with clients whose identities are not known in advance and may be dynamically
chosen, peer-to-peer protocols whose membership is open and dynamic, or where participants are
instructed to execute code that was dynamically generated by others, or even just systems which
allow for an adversarially-controlled number of independent sessions of a simple protocol where the
number of sessions is not known to the protocol.
    The more general model provides built-in mechanisms for capturing such situations. In particu-
lar, it allows representing dynamically generated processes, with dynamically generated programs,
identities, and communication patterns. The model also provides a natural way to delineate an
“session of a protocol” even when an a-priori unbounded number of processes join the session
dynamically throughout the computation, without global coordination.


                                                   8
    We note that the latter modeling approach stands apart from existing models of distributed
computing. Indeed, existing models typically impose more static restrictions on the system; this
results in reduced ability to express protocols, scenarios and threats that are prevalent in modern
networks.
    Another choice relates to the level of formalism: While we strive to pin down the details of
the model as much as possible, we do not provide much in terms of syntax and a “programming
language” for expressing protocols and their execution. Instead, we rely on the basic minimal syntax
of Turing machines. We leave it to future work to develop more formal and abstract domain-specific
programming languages that will facilitate mechanized representation and analysis of protocols and
ideal functionalities within this framework.
    Finally, we note that the models of computation presented here are different than the one
in the first public version of this work [c00a, version of 2000]. Indeed the model has evolved
considerably over time, with the main steps being archived at [c00a, later versions]. In addition, a
number of works in the literature provide different tradeoffs between simplicity and expressibility,
e.g. [n03, w05, w16, sh99, ccl15]. See the Appendix for more details on these works as well as
on previous versions of the present work.

1.4   Overview of the rest of this paper
The restricted model of computation is presented in Section 2. To further increase readability, the
presentation in that section is somewhat informal.
    Section 3 presents a general model for representing distributed systems. While this model is, of
course, designed to be a basis for formulating definitions of security and asserting composability, we
view it as a contribution of independent interest. Indeed, this model is quite different from other
models in the literature for representing distributed computations: First, as mentioned above, it
captures fully dynamic and evolving distributed systems. Second, it accounts for computational
costs and providing the necessary mechanisms and “hooks” for more abstract concepts such as
protocol sessions, subroutines, emulation of one protocol by another, and composition of protocols.
    Section 4 presents the basic model of protocol execution in the presence of an adversary and an
environment, as well as the general notions of protocol emulation. It also presents some variants of
the basic definition of protocol emulation and asserts relationships among them.
    Section 5 presents the concept of an ideal functionality, and defines what it means for a protocol
to realize an ideal functionality.
    Section 6 presents the universal composition operation, and then states and proves the universal
composition theorem.
    Section 7 exemplifies the use of the framework. It first proposes some conventions for expressing
various party corruption operations. Next it presents a handful of ideal functionalities that capture
some salient communication and corruption models.
    Finally, Appendix A reviews related work and its relationship with the present one. Appendix
B briefly reviews previous versions of this work.


2     Warmup: A simplified model
This section presents a simplified version of the definition of security and the composition theo-
rem. We obtain simplicity by somewhat restricting the model of computation, thereby somewhat
restricting the expressive power of the resulting definition and the applicability of the composition

                                                  9
theorem. On the positive side, the restriction allows us to highlight the main ideas of the definition
and composition theorem with minimal formalism. To further improve readability, we also allow
ourselves to be somewhat informal in this section.
    Section 2.1 defines the main object of interest, namely protocols. Section 2.2 presents the
definition of security. Section 2.3 presents the universal composition theorem for this model, and
sketches its proof.

2.1   Machines and Protocols
As discussed earlier, the main objects we wish to analyze are algorithms, or computer programs,
written for a distributed system. (We often use the term protocols when referring to such algo-
rithms.) In contrast with an algorithm written for standard one-shot sequential execution, a pro-
tocol consist of several separate programs, where each program is intended to run independently of
(and potentially concurrently with) all others. In particular each program obtains its own inputs
and random inputs, and generates its own outputs. During their execution, the programs interact
by transmitting information to each other. In the rest of this subsection we provide some basic
formalism that will allow defining and arguing about protocols. We start with formalism regarding
the individual programs (which we call machines), and then move on to formalizing protocols as
collections of machines with certain properties.
    The reader should keep in mind that the formalism presented below will differ in a number
of ways from the traditional cryptographic view of a protocol as a “flat” collection of programs
(machines) where each program represents the overall actions of a “party”, or “principal”, namely
an actual real-world entity. First, to enable the use of composition we allow a “party” to have
multiple machines, where each machine may have several subroutine machines. Second, we use the
same construct (machines) to represent both computational processes that physically execute on an
actual processor, as well as abstract processes that do not actually execute on any physical machine
but rather represent ideal functionalities as per the modeling sketched in the introduction. We will
also allow machines to be subroutines of multiple “caller machines”, where some of these caller
machines represent different real-world entities. This will be useful for capturing “multi-party”
ideal functionalities. (For instance, the traditional notion of a communication channel between
machines A and B will be captured via a “channel machine” that is a subroutine of both A and
B.)
    As for the formalism itself: We almost completely refrain from defining the syntax of machines.
(In Section 3 we do propose some rudimentary syntax based on interactive Turing machine [gmra89,
g01], but any other reasonable model or syntax will do.) Still, we define the following constructs.
    First, we let each machine have a special value called the identity of the machine. The identity
is visible to the machine during the computation, but remains unchanged throughout. Second,
we require that incoming information to a machine be labeled either as input (representing inputs
from a “calling machine”), or as subroutine-output (representing output from subroutines of the
machine). We also allow a third form of incoming information, called backdoor, which will be used
to model information coming from the adversary (to be defined in Section 2.2), or disclosed to it.
    Third, we provide each machine µ with a communication set, which lists the set of identities
of machines that µ can send information to, including the type of information: input, subroutine-
output, or backdoor. That is, the communication set C of µ consists of a sequence of pairs (ID, L),
where ID is an identity string and L ∈ {input, subroutine-output, backdoor}. (As we will see
shortly, we will restrict attention to collections of machines where a machine µ can provide input
to machine µ0 if and only if µ0 can provide subroutine-output to µ, and µ can provide backdoor

                                                 10
information to µ0 if and only if µ0 can provide backdoor information to µ. Thus the set of machines
that can send inputs, subroutine-outputs or backdoor information to a given machine µ can be
inferred from its own communication set.)
    In all, a machine is a triple µ = (ID, C, µ̃) where ID is the identity, C is the communication set,
and µ̃ is the program of the machine. See Figure 2.1 for a graphical depiction of a machine.



                                         subroutine-output
                                                                  input




                                                  ID
                              backdoor                                    backdoor




                                         subroutine-output
                                                                  input




Figure 1: The basic computing unit (machine). Each machine has an identity that remains unchanged
throughout the computation. Information from the outside (i.e., from other machines) is labeled as either
input or subroutine-output. Information sent to other machines is labeled similarly. In addition, a machine
can receive information from and send information to the adversary; this information is labeled as backdoor.
For graphical clarity, in future drawings we draw inputs as lines coming from above, subroutine outputs as
lines coming from below, and backdoor communication as lines coming from either side. The communication
set of the machine is not depicted.




Protocols. The next step is to define “multi-party protocols,” namely collections of programs
that are designed for a joint goal, but are to be executed separately from each other “by different
parties,” while exchanging information. In our formalism a protocol will simply be a set of machines,
with some minimal consistency requirements from the communication sets of these machines. (The
reader is reminded that machines model computational modules, and do not typically correspond
to the traditional concept of “principals”.)
    We turn to defining when a collection of machines is called a protocol. To facilitate present-
ing the consistency requirements from the machines in a protocol, we first formally define caller,
subroutine and subsidiary identities: Machine µ is a caller of identity ID0 if the communication set
of µ allows µ to provide input to identity ID0 (i.e., the communication set of µ contains the entry
(input,ID0 )). Machine µ is a subroutine of identity ID0 if the communication set of µ allows µ to
provide subroutine-output to identity ID0 .
    Consider set of machines π = (µ1 , ..., µn ) where µi = (IDi , Ci , µ̃i ), i = 1..n. Machine µi ∈ π is a
subroutine of machine µj ∈ π if µi is a subroutine of identity IDj . Machine µi ∈ π is a subsidiary of
machine µj ∈ π if µi is a subroutine of µj or of another machine µk ∈ π that is a subsidiary of µj .
    A set of machines π = (µ1 , ..., µn ) is called a protocol if the identity of each machine in π is
unique, and the communication sets of the machines in π satisfy the following requirements:

                                                             11
   • If π contains a machine µ = (ID, C, µ̃) that is a caller of identity ID0 then π also contains a
     machine µ0 = (ID0 , C 0 , µ̃0 ) that is a subroutine of identity ID.

   • If π contains a machine µ0 = (ID0 , C 0 , µ̃0 ) that is a subroutine of identity ID, and in addition
     π contains a machine µ with identity ID, then µ is a caller of identity ID0 .
        If ID is not an identity of any machine in π, then we say that µ0 is a main machine of π, and
        that ID is an external identity of µ with respect to π. If machine µ ∈ π is not a main machine
        of π then we say that µ is an internal machine of π.

    Using this terminology, translating the traditional notion of an m-party protocol into the present
formalism results in a protocol that has m main machines, and potentially other internal machines.
The internal machines that are subsidiaries of a single main machine represent modules within the
program of the corresponding traditional party. Internal machines that are subsidiaries of more
than one main machine naturally correspond either to shared physical resource of else to abstract
‘ideal functionalities.’

2.2     Defining security of protocols
As discussed in the introduction, the security of protocols with respect to a given task is defined
by comparing an execution of the protocol to an ideal process where the outputs are computed by
a single trusted party that obtains all the inputs. We substantiate this approach as follows.
    First, we formulate the process of executing a (potentially multi-party) protocol within an
adversarial execution environment.
    Next, as a preliminary step towards defining security, we formulate a general notion of corre-
spondence between protocols, called protocol emulation. This notion applies to any two protocols:
Essentially, protocol π emulates protocol φ if π “successfully mimics the behavior of φ” within any
execution environment. Said otherwise, if π emulates φ then, from the point of view of the rest of
the system, interacting with π is “no worse” than interacting with φ.
    Finally we define the ideal process for carrying out a distributed computational task by formu-
lating a special “ideal protocol” for the task at hand. We then say that protocol π securely realizes
a given task if π emulates the ideal protocol for the task.

2.2.1     Protocol execution and protocol emulation

We first present the formal model of protocol execution and the notion of protocol emulation, with
minimal discussion. Next we discuss and motivate a number of aspects of the formalism, including
how to represent network communication and corrupted parties on top of the basic model.
    The model of execution for protocol π consists of the machines in π plus two additional ma-
chines, called the environment E and the adversary A. The environment has identity 0, and its
communication set allows it to provide inputs to A and to the main machines of π. The adversary
A has identity 1, and its communication set allows it to provide backdoor information to all ma-
chines. (We assume that the none of the identities of the machine in π, nor the external identities
of the main machines in π, are 0 or 1.) The communication sets of the machines of π are augmented
to include the ability to provide backdoor information to identity 1, namely to A. (As discussed in
the introduction, the environment and the adversary represent different aspects of the “rest of the
system” and its interaction with π. The environment represents the interaction via inputs given
to the protocol and outputs received from it, namely via the “official channels.” The adversary


                                                  12
represent “side effects”, namely information leakage form the protocol execution and influence on
it via other means of information transfer. We consider both machines as adversarial, in the sense
that the definition of security will later quantify over all polynomial time E and A.)
    An execution of π with adversary A and environment E, on initial input z, starts by running
E on input z. From this point on, the machines take turns in executing as follows: Once machine
µ = (ID, C, µ̃) performs an instruction to transmit information to some identity ID0 ∈ C, the
execution of µ is suspended. Next:

  1. If µ = E then the message (which in this case is an input) is added to the state of the machine
     µ0 whose identity is ID0 together with some source identity chosen by E out of the external
     identities of µ, along with the label input. If µ0 = A then no source identity is added. Next
     the execution of µ0 begins (or resumes) until the point where µ0 either pauses or instructs to
     transmit information to another machine.

  2. If µ 6= E and the identity ID0 exists in the system, then the message is added to the state of
     machine µ0 whose identity is ID0 , along with the label and the source identity ID. Next µ0
     begins (or resumes) executing.

  3. Else (identity ID0 is an external identity for π), the message is added to the state of E, along
     with the identities ID and ID0 , and E resumes executing. (Observe that in this case µ is a
     main machine of π and the message is subroutine-output.)

  4. If µ pauses without sending information then the execution of E resumes.

The execution ends when E halts. We assume that E has a special binary output variable. The
output of the execution is the contents of that variable when E halts. A graphical depiction of the
model of protocol execution appears in Figure 2 on page 13.
   Let execπ,A,E (z) denote the random variable (over the local random choices of all the involved
machines) describing the output of an execution of π with environment E and adversary A, on
input z, as described above.n Let execπ,A,E denote the ensemble {execπ,A,E (z)}z∈{0,1}∗ .




                                                    E




                                             𝜇1         …         𝜇𝑚

                                             …                    …
                                 A
                                                            𝜋
Figure 2: The model of execution of protocol π. The environment E writes the inputs and reads the
subroutine-outputs of the main machines of π. In addition, E and A interact freely. The main machines of
π may have subroutines, to which E has no direct access.




                                                  13
Protocol emulation. Next we define what it means for protocol π “emulate” another protocol
φ. The idea is to directly capture the requirement that no environment should be able to tell
whether it is interacting with π and an adversary of choice, or with φ and some other adversary.
    We require that all machines are polytime in the sense that the overall number of steps taken
by each machine is bounded by a polynomial in a global security parameter, taken to be the length
of the initial input to the environment. Jumping ahead, this will mean that an execution of any
protocol can be simulated on a standard probabilistic Turing machine in time polynomial in the
security parameter and the number of machines. All other asymptotics are also taken over the
security parameter.


Definition 1 (UC-emulation, restricted model) Protocol π UC-emulates protocol φ if for any
polytime adversary A there exists a polytime adversary S such that, for any polytime environment E,
the ensembles execπ,A,E and execφ,S,E are indistinguishable. That is, for any input, the probability
that E outputs 1 after interacting with A and π differs by at most a negligible amount from the
probability that E outputs 1 after interacting with S and φ.

Discussion. We discuss some aspects of the model of execution and the notion of protocol emu-
lation. See additional discussion in Section 3.3.

On UC-emulation. UC-emulation guarantees strong correspondence between protocols. It requires
the ability to turn any real-world attack on the emulating protocol (by A) into an attack on the
emulated protocols (by S), so that the combined view of any environment from interacting with π
on the input/output links, and at the same time interacting with π on the backdoor links (via A)
cannot be distinguished from its view of interacting with φ and S.
    This in particular means that the number of main machines in π, as well as their identities,
are exactly the same as those of φ. In addition, it is guaranteed that outputs provided by π
are distributed indistinguishably from those provided by φ on the same inputs. At the same
time, it is guaranteed that any information learnt by A is “simulatable”, in the sense that it is
indistinguishable from information that is generated by S given only the information provided to
it by φ. When the output of φ is randomized, it is guaranteed that the joint distribution of the
outputs of the main machines of π is indistinguishable from the joint distribution of their outputs
of the main machines of φ; furthermore, this holds even when the outputs are viewed jointly with
the output of A or S, respectively.
    As discussed in the introduction, what sets this notion of emulation apart from previous ones is
that the present notion considers an environment that takes an active role in trying to distinguish
between the emulated protocol φ and the emulating protocol π. That is, the environment should be
unable to distinguish between the process of running protocol π with adversary A and the process
of running protocol φ with simulator S even given the ability to interact with these processes as
they evolve. Indeed, the interactive nature of the definition plays a crucial role in the proof of the
universal composition theorem.

Modeling inter-process communication. As discussed above, the present model only allows machines
to communicate via inputs and outputs, and does not provide direct representation of a ‘communi-
cation channel’ between machines. Instead, communication channels can be captured via dedicated
machines that exhibit the properties of the channels modeled.


                                                 14
    For sake of illustration, let us describe the machine, µ[1,2] , that represents authenticated asyn-
chronous communication from machine µ1 to machine µ2 . Machine µ[1,2] proceeds as follows: (a)
Upon receiving input m from machine µ1 , machine µ[1,2] records m and sends m to A as backdoor
information. (b) Upon receiving ok as backdoor, µ[1,2] outputs m to µ2 . Indeed, the fact that
A learns m means that the channel does not provide any secrecy guarantees; the ability of A to
arbitrarily delay the delivery of the message represents the asynchrony of the communication; the
fact that µ[1,2] only delivers messages sent by µ1 means that the communication is ideally authentic.
Other types of communication are modeled analogously.
    We argue that leaving the modeling of the communication links outside the basic model of com-
putation helps keep the model simple, and at the same time general and expressive. In particular,
different types of communication channels can be captured via different programs for the channel
machine; in particular the type of information the channel machine discloses to the adversary via
the backdoor tape, and the way it responds to instructions coming from the adversary on the
backdoor tape, determines the properties of the channel.

Modeling party corruption. The above model of protocol execution does not contain explicit con-
structs for representing adversarial behavior of parties (or, machines). As mentioned in Section
1.3, this too is done for sake of keeping the basic model and definition of security simple, while
preserving generality and expressibility. We sketch how adversarial behavior is represented within
this model.
    Adversarial behavior of parties is captured by way of having the adversary “assume control”
over a set of machines, by handing a special corruption instruction to the target machines as backdoor
information. Protocols should then contain a set of formal instructions for following the directives
in these messages. The specific set of instructions can be considered to be part of a more specialized
corruption model, and should represent the relevant expected behavior upon corruption.
    This mechanism allows representing many types of corruption, such as outright malicious
(dubbed Byzantine) behavior, honest-but-curious behavior, side-channel leakage, transient failures,
coercion. For instance, adaptive Byzantine corruptions can be modeled by having the corruption
instruction include a new program, and having the machine send its entire current state to the
adversary, and from now on execute the new program instead of the original program. To model
static Byzantine corruptions, the switch to the new program will happen only if the corruption
instruction arrives at the very first activation.
    To keep the definition of protocol emulation meaningful even in the presence of machine cor-
ruption, we will need a mechanism that guarantees that the corruptions performed by S are “com-
mensurate” to the corruptions performed by A. One way to handle this issue is to postulate that
the adversary (either A or S) corrupts a machine only when specifically instructed to do so by the
environment. However, this mechanism implicitly mandates that the internal machine structure of
the emulating protocol π is identical to that of the emulated protocol φ, which is too restrictive
(indeed, we would typically like φ to be simpler than π).
    Instead, we devise a more general mechanism that allows the environment to obtain information
regarding which machines are currently under control of the adversary: To each protocol we add a
special “record-keeping” machine, that is notified by each machine of the protocol upon corruption.
The environment can then learn about the current corruption activity by querying the special
machine. The special machine can be programmed to disclose either full or partial information
on the current corruption activity; Determining which information to disclose to the environment
should be viewed as part of the security specification of the protocol. See further discussion in


                                                  15
Section 7.1.
    A bit more generally, we note that the above modeling of the traditional operation of “party
corruption” heavily relies on using parts of the code of machines as “modeling pieces” rather than
actual code that is to be executed in actual real-life machines. Indeed, this is a powerful model-
ing technique that allows keeping the model simple and at the same time flexible and expressive.
However, to preserve meaningfulness one has to clearly delineate the separation between the “mod-
eling code” and the “real code”. Such delineation is formalized later on (Section 5.1) and used
extensively.

On the order of activations and “true concurrency”. Recall that the definition postulates a single-
threaded and simplistic model of executing protocols: Only one machine is active at any point
in time, and the next machine to be activated is determined exclusively by the currently active
machine (subject to some basic model restrictions).
    One might wonder whether this model adequately represents distributed systems where com-
putation occurs concurrently in several locations. Indeed, the model appears at first to stand in
contrast with the physical nature of distributed systems, where computations take place in multi-
ple physically separate places at the same time. It is also different than traditional mathematical
modeling of concurrent executions of processes in distributed systems (see e.g. [h85, m89, ag97,
lmms98, ly96, lsv03]). Still we argue that, in spite of its simplicity, the model does capture all
salient situations and concerns. Let us elaborate.
    Traditionally, executions of systems that include concurrent executions of physically separate
processes are mathematically captured by first considering the un-ordered collection of the execu-
tions of the locally sequential processes, and then considering all possible ways to interleave the
local executions so as to form a single “sequentialized” execution, subject to certain causality con-
straints. (This modeling is often dubbed “non-deterministic scheduling”.) Here the granularity of
“atomic events” (namely, events that are assumed to be executed at a single location and without
interruption) is a key factor in determining the level of concurrency under consideration, and thus
the expressive power of the model.
    The model (or, “mental experiment”) considered here is simpler: Instead of determining the
granularity of “atomic events” ahead of time, and then considering “all possible interleavings” of
these atomic events, the present model lets the processes themselves determine both the granularity
of atomic events (by deciding when to send a message to another machine) and the specific inter-
leaving of events (by deciding which machine to send a message to). The result is a single-threaded
sequential execution that is determined by the aggregate of the local decisions made algorithmically
by each machine.
    Observe however that the formal simplicity does not restrict its expressive power: Indeed, it is
possible to capture any granularity of atomic events, by programming the machines to send messages
at the end of the desired atomic sequence of operations. Arbitrary and adversarial interleaving
of events is captured by having the machines messages to adversarial machines that represent
the desired level of variability in timing and ordering of events (as exemplified by the modeling
of asynchronous communication channels sketched in a previous comment). Furthermore, this
modeling allows restricting attention to computationally bounded scheduling of events, as opposed
to fully non-deterministic scheduling. This ability is crucial for capturing security guarantees that
hold only against computationally bounded adversaries.




                                                 16
2.2.2   Realizing deal functionalities

Recall that security of protocols is defined by way of comparing the protocol execution to an ideal
process for carrying out the task at hand, and that the ideal process takes the form of running
a special protocol called the ideal protocol for the task. A key ingredient in the ideal protocol
is the ideal functionality, which is a single machine that captures the desired functionality, or the
specification, of the task by way of a set of instructions for a “trusted party”.
    More specifically, an ideal protocol for capturing a task for m participants consists of the ideal
functionality machine F, plus m special machines called dummy parties. Upon receiving input,
each dummy party forwards this input to F, along with the identity of the caller machine. Upon
receiving an output value from F, along with a destination identity, a dummy party forwards the
value to its destination.
    A graphical depiction of the ideal protocol for F, denoted idealF , appears in Figure 3. (Using
the terminology of Section 2.1, the main machines of idealF are the dummy parties. F is an
internal machine of idealF .)




                                              D1F        …        D𝑚F



                                  A



                                                         F



Figure 3: The ideal protocol idealF for an ideal functionality F. The main machines of idealF , denoted
D1F , ..., Dm
            F
              , are “dummy parties”: they only relay inputs to F, and relay outputs of F to the destination
machines. The adversary A communicates with F (and only with F) by providing and receiving backdoor
information.


   Defining when protocol π realizes an ideal functionality F is now straightforward:

Definition 2 (realizing an ideal functionality, restricted model) Protocol π UC-realizes ideal
functionality F if π UC-emulates idealF .

Discussion.     We motivate some aspects of the design of ideal functionalities and ideal protocols:

Backdoor communication with the adversary. The backdoor communication between F and A pro-
vides a flexible and expressive way to “fine-tune” the security guarantees provided by F. Indeed,
as discussed in the introduction, a natural way to represent tasks that allow some “disclosure of
information” (say, via corruption or protocol messages) is by having F explicitly provide this in-
formation to A. Similarly, tasks that allow some amount of “adversarial influence” on the outputs


                                                    17
of the participants (again, via corruption, message scheduling, or other means) can be represented
by letting F take into account information received from A.

Capturing stateful and reactive tasks. An ideal functionality can naturally capture the security
requirements from reactive tasks. Indeed, it can maintain local state and each of its outputs may
depend on all the inputs received and all random choices so far.

The role of the dummy parties. At first glance, the dummy parties may look redundant: One
could potentially have the ideal protocol consist of only F: All inputs would be sent directly to
F, and F would directly send all outputs to their destination machines. However, in that case the
ideal protocol would be easily distinguishable from any distributed implementation of it since the
environment could tell whether it is interaction with a single machine (in particular a single identity)
or else with multiple machines. Indeed, the role of the dummy parties is to allow the environment
to treat the ideal process as a distributed process which consists of multiple separate computational
entities, each taking inputs and generating outputs separately from the other entities, and at the
same time have the actual computational process be done centrally in F. The dummy parties are
not meant to play any other role. In particular, they ignore backdoor information. This means
that the description of F captures all the specification information for the task at hand.

2.3    Universal Composition
We present the universal composition operation and theorem. We concentrate on the case of
composing general protocols, noting that the case of ideal functionalities and ideal protocols follows
as a special case.

Subroutine protocols. In order to present the composition operation, we first define subroutine
protocols. Let ρ be a protocol, and let φ ⊂ ρ, namely φ is a subset of the machines in ρ. We say
that φ is a subroutine protocol of ρ if φ is in itself a valid protocol. In this case we call the set ρ \ φ
the caller part of ρ with respect to φ.

The universal composition operation. The universal composition operation is a natural gen-
eralization of the “subroutine substitution” operation from the case of sequential algorithms to
the case of distributed protocols. Specifically, say that protocol π is compatible with protocol φ if
there is an identity-preserving injective correspondence between the main machines of π and those
of φ. Furthermore, the external identities in the communication set C of each main machine of
π, namely the identities in C that are not part of π, appear also in the communication set of the
corresponding main machine of φ.
    Let ρ, φ and π be protocols such that φ is a subroutine protocol of ρ, π and φ are compatible,
and no machine in π has the same identity as any machine in ρ\φ. The composed protocol, denoted
ρφ→π , is identical to ρ, except that the subroutine protocol φ is replaced by protocol π. Given our
interpretation of protocols as sets of machines, we have ρφ→π = (ρ \ φ) ∪ π. Since π is compatible
with φ, we have that ρφ→π is a valid protocol. For notational simplicity we use ρF →π instead of
ρ(idealF )→π . Figure 4 presents a graphical depiction of the composition operation:
The composition theorem. We say that protocol π is identity-compatible with protocols ρ and
φ if no machine in π has the same identity as a machine in ρ \ φ. We have:



                                                    18
                                            ρ                                             ρF  π
                 ρ1                    ρ2                          ρ1                ρ2



        A                                                A

                   D F1        D F2                                     π1      π2
                                                                                     π
                          F
                              IdealF


Figure 4: The universal composition operation for the case where ρ has two main machines and uses an ideal
protocol idealF with two main machines (left figure). idealF is replaced by a two-machine protocol π (right
figure). The solid lines represent inputs and outputs. The dashed lines represent backdoor communication.


Theorem 3 (universal composition for the restricted model) Let ρ, φ, π be protocols such
that φ is a subroutine of ρ, π UC-emulates φ, and π is identity-compatible with ρ and φ. Then
protocol ρφ→π UC-emulates ρ.

Discussion. See Section 1.2 for interpretation and discussion of universal composition. We men-
tion the following corollaries: (a) If protocol π UC-realizes an ideal functionality F, and ρ uses
as subroutine protocol idealF (i.e., the ideal protocol for F), then the composed protocol ρF →π
UC-emulates ρ. (b) If ρ UC-realizes an ideal functionality G, then so does ρF →π .
Proof (sketch): The main observation that underlies the proof is that, since UC-emulation allows
unrestricted exchange of information between the environment and the adversary, the interaction
between A and ρφ→π can be separated out to two distinct (interleaved) interactions: An interaction
with π, and an interaction with the caller part of ρφ→π with respect to π. Simulating the overall
interaction can then be done by separately simulating each one of the two interleaved interactions:
The first interaction is simulatable because π UC-emulates φ, and the second interaction is trivially
simulatable because the caller part of ρφ→π with respect to π is identical to the caller part of ρ with
respect to φ.
    To make good of this observation, we first define a special adversary, called the dummy adversary,
that merely serves as a “transparent channel” between E and the protocol. That is, D expects
to receive in each input a request to deliver a given message to (the backdoor tape of) a given
machine. D carries out these requests. In addition, any incoming backdoor message (from some
protocol machine) is forwarded by D to its environment, along with the identity of the sending
machine. Note that D is stateless, and in particular “separable” to many independent adversaries.
    The proof of the theorem now proceeds as follows (see Figure 5). Since π UC-emulates φ,
we know that there exists an adversary (“simulator”) Sπ,D , such that no environment can tell
whether it is interacting with π and D or with φ and Sπ,D . Given an adversary A (that is geared
to interact with ρφ→π ), we now construct the following simulator S (that is geared to interact
with ρ). Simulator S runs A and channels the communication between A and the environment
without any change. Similarly, the communication between A and the caller part of ρ is channeled
without change. The communication between A and the machines of φ is “pipelined” via Sπ,D ;
that is, messages generated by A to the machines of π are forwarded to Sπ,D as inputs from the
environment; incoming messages from the machines of φ are forwarded to Sπ,D without change.

                                                    19
                                E                                       Eπ            E


              S

                  A             ρ                                        A            ρ



               SD / D          𝜙/π                                     SD / D        𝜙/π




Figure 5: The operation of the simulator S (left figure) and of the environment Eπ (right figure). For visual
clarity, each (potentially multi-party) protocol is depicted as a single box.


Messages generated by Sπ,D to the machines of φ are forwarded without change, and outputs of
Sπ,D to its environment are forwarded to A as messages coming from the machines of π.
    Intuitively, the simulation makes sense since the instance of A run by S behaves exactly like
the environment that Sπ,D expects. More concretely, the validity of the simulation is demonstrated
via a reduction to the validity of Sπ,D : Given an environment E that distinguishes between an
execution of ρ with A, and an execution of ρφ→π with S, we construct an environment Eπ that
distinguishes between an execution of π with D and an execution of φ with Sπ,D . Essentially, Eπ
orchestrates for E an entire interaction with ρ, where the interaction with the subroutine protocol
(either φ or π) is relayed to the external system that Eπ interacts with. We then argue that if
Eπ interacts with π, then E, run by Eπ , is in effect interacting with D and ρφ→π . Similarly, if Eπ
interacts with an session of φ, then E is in effect interacting with ρ and S (see Figure 5). Here we
crucially use the fact that an execution of an entire system can be efficiently simulated on a single
machine. (A more detailed proof can be derived from the one in Section 6.)
    We remark that D is in fact the “hardest adversary to simulate”, in the following sense: If, for
some protocols π and φ, it is possible to successfully simulate the dummy adversary for any envi-
ronment, then it is possible to successfully simulate any polytime adversary, for any environment.
This observation, which is proven with respect to the more general model in Claim 11, is used to
simplify the full proof of the UC theorem.
                                                                                                   
    Finally note that the UC theorem can be applied repeatedly to substitute multiple subroutine
protocols of ρ with protocols that UC-realize them. Furthermore, repeated applications of the
theorem may use nested subroutine protocols. Also, note that the simulation overhead is additive,
namely the runtime of S is bounded by the runtime of A plus some constant times the runtime of
Sπ,D . This means that the UC theorem cam be applied polynomially many times while keeping
the simulation overhead polynomial.


3    The model of computation
The treatment of Section 2 considers only systems where the number, identities, programs and
connectivity of computing elements are fixed and known in advance. While helpful in keeping the
model simple, these restrictions do not allow representing many realistic situations, protocols, and


                                                      20
threats.
    The coming four sections extend the treatment of Section 2 to account for fully dynamic and
evolving distributed systems of computational entities. This section extends the definition of ma-
chines and protocols from Section 2.1, and defines a general model of distributed computation
within dynamically evolving systems, taking into account computational limitations. Building on
the basic model developed here, Sections 4 and 5 then extend the definition of protocol emulation
and realizing ideal functionalities from Section 2.2. Section 6 then extends Section 2.3.
    Formulating a general model of computation, separately from the process of protocol execution
which underlies the notion of protocol emulation, is, in a way, a non-essential “detour”. Still, we
hope that this detour will help clarify and motivate the definitional choices made along the way.
Furthermore, this general model may be of independent interest. In particular, it may potentially
be used as a basis for different notions of security and correctness of distributed computation.
    We strive to completely pinpoint the model of computation. When some details do not seem
to matter, we say so but choose a default. This approach should be contrasted with the approach
of, say, Abstract Cryptography, or the π-calculus [mr11, m99] that aim at capturing abstract
properties that hold irrespective of any specific implementation or computational considerations.
    Section 3.1 presents the basic model. Section 3.2 presents the definition of resource-bounded
computation. To facilitate reading, we postpone longer discussions and comparison with other
models to Section 3.3.

3.1     The basic model
As in Section 2, we start by defining the basic object of interest, namely protocols. Here however
the treatment of protocols is very different than there. Specifically, recall that in Section 2 protocols
come with a fixed number of computing elements, including the identities and connectivity of the
elements. In contrast, here we let the identities, connectivity, and even programs of computing
elements be chosen adaptively as part of the execution process. In particular the model captures
systems where new computational entities get added dynamically, with dynamically generated
identities and programs. It also captures the inevitable ambiguities in addressing of messages that
result from local and partial knowledge of the system, and allows representing various behaviors of
the communication media in terms of reliability. Further, the model facilitates taking into account
the computational costs of addressing and delivery of information. We note that many of the choices
here are new, and require re-thinking of basic concepts such as addressing of messages, identities,
“protocol sessions”, and resource-bounded computation.
    We proceed in two main steps. First (Section 3.1.1), we define a syntax, or a rudimentary
“programming language” for protocols. This language, which extends the notion of interactive
Turing machine [gmra89], contains data structures and instructions needed for operating in a
distributed system. Next (Section 3.1.2), we define the semantics of a protocol, namely an execution
model for distributed systems which consists of one or more protocols as sketched above. To
facilitate readability, we postpone most of the motivating discussions to Section 3.3. We point to
the relevant parts of the discussion as we go along.

3.1.1    Interactive Turing Machines (ITMs)

Interactive Turing machines (ITM) extend the standard Turing machine formalism to capture
a distributed algorithm (protocol). A definition of interactive Turing machines, geared towards
capturing pairs of interacting machines, is given in [gmra89] (see also [g01, Vol I, Ch. 4.2.1]).

                                                   21
That definition adds to the standard definition of a Turing machine a mechanism that allows a pair
of machines to exchange information via writing on special “shared tapes”. Here we extend this
formalism to accommodate protocols written for systems with multiple computing elements, and
where multiple concurrent executions of various protocols co-exist. For this purpose, we define a
somewhat richer syntax for ITMs. The semantics of the added syntax are described as part of the
model of execution of systems of ITMs, in Section 3.1.2.
    We note that the formalism given below aims to use only minimal syntax programming ab-
stractions. This is intentional, and leaves the door open to building more useful programming
languages on top of this one. Also, as mentioned in the introduction, the use of Turing machines
as the underlying computational ‘device’ is mainly due to tradition. Other computational models
that allow accounting for computational complexity of programs can serve as a replacement. RAM
or PRAM machines, Boolean or arithmetic circuits are quintessential candidates. See additional
discussion in Section 3.3.

Definition 4 An interactive Turing machine (ITM) µ is a Turing machine (as in, say, [si05]) with
the following augmentations:

Special tapes (i.e., data structures):

        • An identity tape. This tape is “read only”. That is, µ cannot write to this tape. The
          contents of this tape is interpreted as two strings. The first string contains a description,
          using some standard encoding, of the program of µ (namely, its state transition function
          and initial tape contents). We call this description the code of µ. The second string is
          called the identity of µ. The identity of µ together with its code is called the extended
          identity of µ.
          (Informally, the contents of this tape is used to identify an “instance” of an ITM within
          a system of ITMs.)
        • An outgoing message tape. Informally, this tape holds the current outgoing message gen-
          erated by µ, together with sufficient addressing information for delivery of the message.
        • Three externally writable tapes for holding information coming from other computing
          devices:
            – An input tape. Informally, this tape represents information that is to be treated as
              inputs from “calling programs” or an external user.
            – A subroutine-output tape. Informally, this tape represents information that is to be
              treated as outputs of computations performed by programs or modules that serve as
              “subroutines” of the present program.
            – A backdoor tape. Informally, this tape represents information “coming from the ad-
              versary.” This information is used to capture adversarial influence on the program.
              (It is stressed that the messages coming in on this tape are only a modeling artifact;
              they do not represent messages actually sent by protocol principals.)
          These three tapes are read-only and read-once. That is, the ITM cannot write into these
          tapes, and the reading head moves only in one direction.
        • A one-bit activation tape. Informally, this tape represents whether the ITM is currently
          “in execution”.

New instructions:


                                                 22
         • An external-write instruction. Informally, the effect of this instruction is that the message
           currently written on the outgoing message tape is possibly written to the specified tape
           of the machine with the identity specified in the outgoing message tape. More concrete
           specification is postponed to Section 3.1.2.
         • A read next message instruction. This instruction specifies a tape out of {input, subroutine-
           output, backdoor}. The effect is that the reading head jumps to the beginning of the next
           message on that tape. (To implement this instruction, we assume that each message
           ends with a special end-of-message (eom) character.)4 5

Definition 5 A configuration of an ITM µ consists of the contents of all tapes, as well as the
current state and the location of the head in each tape. A configuration is active if the activation
tape is set to 1, else it is inactive.
    An instance M of an ITM µ consists of the contents of the identity tape alone. (Recall that the
identity tape of µ contains the code µ, plus a string id called the identity. That is, M = (µ, id).
Also, the contents of the identity tape remains unchanged throughout an execution.) We say that a
configuration is a configuration of instance M if the contents of the identity tape in the configuration
agrees with M , namely if the program encoded in the identity tape is µ and the rest of the identity
tape holds the string id.
    An activation of an ITM instance (ITI) M = (µ, id) is a sequence of configurations that cor-
respond to a computation of µ starting from some active configuration of M , until an inactive
configuration is reached. (Informally, at this point the activation is complete and M is waiting for
the next activation.) If a special sink (halt) state is reached then we say that M has halted; in
this case, it does nothing in all future activations (i.e., upon activation it immediately resets its
activation bit).

   Throughout this work we treat an ITM instance (ITI) as a run-time object (a “process”)
associated with program µ. Indeed, the fact that the identity tape is read-only makes sure that it
remains immutable during an execution (i.e. all configurations of the same computation contain
the same value of M ). In the language of Section 2, an ITI corresponds to a machine, with the
exception that the communication set of the machine is not specified.

3.1.2    Executing ITMs

We specify the semantics of executing ITMs. As we will see, an execution, even of a single ITM,
might involve multiple ITIs. We thus add to our formalism another construct, called the control
function, which regulates the transfer of information between ITIs. That is, the control function
determines which “external-write” instructions are “allowed” within the present execution. In the
language of Section 2, the control function corresponds to the collection of all the communication
sets of all the machines in the system; it is, however, significantly more general, providing greater
flexibility, expressive power, and clarity in defining models of distributed computing. (See more
discussion in Section 3.3.) We proceed to the formal description.
  4
      If a RAM or PRAM machine is used as the underlying computing unit then this instruction is redundant.
However it is needed in the Turing machine setting to handle incoming messages with unbounded length. See more
discussion in Section 3.3.
   5
     To enable machines that can simulate the operation of other machines with only additive overhead we allow
Turing machines with multiple computation tapes. Also here, in the RAM or PRAM machine models this point is
moot.



                                                     23
Systems of ITMs. Formally, a system of ITMs is a pair S = (I, C) where I is an ITM, called
the initial ITM, and C : {0, 1}∗ → {allow, disallow} is a control function.

Executions of systems of ITMs. An execution of a system S = (I, C) on input z consists
of a sequence of activations of ITIs. The first activation is an activation of I, starting from the
configuration where the identity tape contains the code I followed by identity 0, the input tape
contains the value x, and a sufficiently long random string is written on the random tape.6 In
accordance, the ITI (I, 0) is called the initial ITI in this execution.
    An execution ends when the initial ITI halts (that is, when a halting configuration of the initial
ITI is reached). The output of an execution is the contents of first cell in the outgoing message
tape of the initial ITI when it halts. An execution prefix is a prefix of an execution.
    To complete the definition of an execution, it remains to specify: (a) The effect of an external-
write instruction, and (b) How to determine the first configuration in the next activation, once an
activation is complete. These points are described next.

Writing to a tape of another ITI and invoking new ITIs. The mechanism that allows
communication between ITIs is the external-write instruction. The same instruction is used also for
invoking new ITIs. Specifically, the effect of an external-write instruction is the following.
   Let M = (µ, id) denote the ITI which executes the instruction. Then the current contents of
the outgoing message tape of M is interpreted (using some standard encoding) as a tuple:

                                              (f, M 0 , t, r, M, m)

where M 0 is an extended identity of a “target ITI”, t is a tape name out of {input, subroutine-output,
backdoor}, r ∈ {0, 1} is a reveal-sender-id flag, f ∈ {0, 1} is a forced-write flag, and m ∈ {0, 1}∗ is
the message. Consider the result of applying the control function C to the current execution prefix,
including (f, M 0 , t, r, M, m). If this result is disallow, then the instruction is not carried out and
the initial ITI is activated next (i.e., its activation tape is set to 1). If C outputs allow, then:

   1. If f = 1 then M 0 is interpreted as an extended identity M 0 = (µ0 , id0 ). In this case:

       (a) If the ITI M 0 = (µ0 , id0 ) currently exists in the system (namely, one of the past config-
           urations in the current execution prefix has extended identity M 0 ), then the message m
           is written to tape t of M 0 , starting at the next blank space. If the reveal-sender-id flag is
           set (i.e., r = 1), then the extended identity M = (µ, id) of the writing ITI is also written
           on the same tape. The target ITI M 0 is activated next. (That is, a new configuration of
           M 0 is generated; this configuration is the previous configuration of M 0 in this execution,
           with the new information written on the incoming messages tape. The activation tape
           in this configuration is set to 1.)
       (b) If the ITI M 0 = (µ0 , id0 ) does not currently exist in the system, then a new ITI M 0 with
           code µ0 and identity id0 is invoked. That is, a new configuration is generated, with code
           µ0 , the value M 0 written on the identity tape, and the random tape is populated as in
           the case of the initial ITI. Once the new ITI is invoked, the external-write instruction is
           carried out as in Step 1a. In this case, we say that M invoked M 0 .
   6
     Without loss of generality, the random tape is read-once (i.e. the head can only move in one direction). This
means that the tape can be thought of as infinitely long and each new location read can be thought of as chosen at
random at the time of reading.


                                                       24
  2. If f = 0 then M 0 is interpreted as a predicate P on extended identities. Let M 00 be earliest-
     invoked ITI such that P (M 00 ) holds. Then, the message m is delivered to M 00 as in Step 1a.
     If no ITI M 00 exists such that P (M 00 ) holds, then the message is not delivered and the initial
     ITI is activated.
When an ITI M writes a value x to the backdoor tape of ITI M 0 , we say that M sends backdoor
message x to M 0 . When M writes a value x onto the input tape of M 0 , we say that M passes input
x to M 0 . When M 0 writes x to the subroutine-output tape of M , we say that M 0 passes output x
(or simply outputs x) to M .
    It will be convenient to formally define what it means for an ITI to reject an incoming message:
We say that ITI M rejects an incoming message if, after reading the message, M returns to its
state prior to reading the message and ends the activation without further action. We sometimes
say that M ignores the message, with the same meaning.

Notation. We use the following notation. Let outI,C (z) denote the random variable describing
the output of the execution of the system (I, C) of ITMs when I’s input is z. Here the probability
is taken over the random choices of all the ITIs in the system. Let outI,C denote the ensemble
{outI,C (z)}z∈{0,1}∗ .

Discussion: On the uniqueness of identities. Section 3.3 discusses several aspects of the external-
write instruction, and in particular motivates the differences from the communication mechanisms
provided in other frameworks. At this point we only observe that the above invocation rules for
ITIs, together with the fact that the execution starts with a single ITI, guarantee that each ITI
in a system has unique extended identity. That is, no execution of a system of ITIs has two ITIs
with the same identity and code. This property makes sure that the present addressing mechanism
is unambiguous. Furthermore, the non-forced-write writing mode (where f = 0) allows ITIs to
communicate unambiguously even without knowing the full code, or even the full identity of each
other. (This is done by setting the predicate P to represent the necessary partial knowledge of the
intended identity M 0 .)

Extended systems. The above definition of a system of ITMs provides mechanisms for ITIs to
communicate, while specifying the code and identity of the ITIs it transmits information to. It
also provides mechanisms for an ITI to know the identity (and sometimes the code) of the ITIs
that transmitted information to it. These constructs provide a basic, yet sufficient formalism for
representing distributed computational systems.
    However, our definitions of security, formulated in later sections, make some additional require-
ments from the model. Recall that these definitions involve a “mental experiment” where one
replaces some protocol session with a session of another protocol. Within the present framework,
such replacement requires the ability to create a situation where some ITI M sends a message to
another ITI M 0 , but the message is actually delivered to another ITI, M 00 - where M 00 has, say,
different code than M 0 . Similarly, M 00 should be able to send messages back to M , whereas it
appears to M that the sender is M 0 . Other modifications of a similar nature need to be supported
as well.
    The mechanism we use to enable such situations is the control function. Recall that in a system
S = (I, C) the control function C outputs either allowed or disallowed. We extend the definition
of a control function so that it can also modify the external-write requests made by ITIs. That
is, an extended system is a system (I, C) where the output of C given external-write instruction

                                                 25
(f, M 0 , t, r, M, m) consists of completely new set of values, i.e. a tuple (f˜, M̃ 0 , t̃, r̃, M̃ , m̃) to be
executed as above.
    We note that, although the above definition of an extended system gives the control function
complete power in modifying the external-write instructions, the extended systems considered in
this work use control functions that modify the external-write operations only in very specific cases
and in very limited ways.

 Subroutines, etc. If M has passed input to M 0 in an execution and M 0 has not rejected this
input, or M 0 has passed output to M and M has not rejected this output, then we say that M 0 is
a subroutine of M in this execution. (Note that M 0 may be a subroutine of M even when M 0 was
invoked by an ITI other than M .) If M 0 is a subroutine of M then we say that M is a caller of M 0 .
M 0 is a subsidiary of M if M 0 is a subroutine of M or of another subsidiary of M .
    Note that the basic model does not impose a “hierarchical” subroutine structure for ITIs. For
instance, two ITIs can be subroutines of each other, an ITI can also be a subroutine of itself, and
an ITI can be a subroutine of several ITIs. Some restrictions are imposed later in specific contexts.

 Protocols. A protocol is defined as a (single) ITM as in Definition 4. As already discussed,
the goal is to capture the notion of an algorithm written for a distributed system where physically
separated participants engage in a joint computation; namely, the ITM describes the program to
be run by each participant in the computation. If the protocol specifies different programs for
different participants, or “roles”, then the ITM should describe all these programs. (Alternatively,
protocols can be defined as sets, or sequences of machines, where different machines represent the
code to be run by different participants. However, such a formalism add unnecessary notational
complexity to the basic model.)

 Protocol sessions. The notion of a running session of a protocol has strong intuitive appeal.
However, rigorously defining it in way that is both natural and reasonably general turns out to be
tricky. Indeed, what would be a natural way to delineate, or isolate, a single session of a protocol
within an execution of a dynamic system where multiple ITIs run multiple pieces of code?
    Traditionally, a session of a protocol in a running system is defined as a fixed set of machines
that run a predefined program, often with identities that are fixed in advance. (Indeed, this is
the case in the framework of Section 2.) Such a definitional approach, however, does not account
for protocol sessions where the identities of the participants, and perhaps even the number of
participants, are determined dynamically as the execution unfolds. It also does not account for
sessions of protocols where the code has been determined dynamically, rather than being fixed at
the onset of the execution of the entire system. Thus, a more flexible definition is desirable.
    The definition proposed here attempts to formalize the following intuition: “A set of ITIs in
an execution of a system belong to the same session of some protocol π if they all run π, and in
addition they were invoked with the intention of interacting with each other for a joint purpose.”
In fact, since different participants in a session typically run within different physical entities in
a distributed system, the last condition should probably be rephrased to say: “...and in addition
the invoker of each ITI in the session intends that ITI to participate in a joint interaction with the
other ITIs in that session.”
    We provide a mechanism for an invoker of an ITI to specify a protocol session for the ITI to
participate in. The construct we use for this purpose is the identity string. That is, we interpret
(via some standard unambiguous encoding) the identity of an ITI as two strings, called the session


                                                      26
identifier (SID) and the party identifier (PID). The idea is that a protocol session will consist of all the
ITIs that have the same SID and the same code. The PIDs are used to differentiate between ITIs
within a protocol session; they can also be used to associate ITIs with “clusters”, such as physical
computers in a network. Additional discussion on the SID/PID mechanism appears in Section 3.3.
    We coin some additional terminology. Consider some execution prefix of a system of ITMs. A
session s of protocol π in that prefix is the set of ITIs that have code π and SID s. (We also use the
shorthand protocol session (s, π) with the same meaning.) The ITIs in protocol session (s, π) are
called the parties of that session. We also use the terms main parties or main ITIs of the protocol
session, with the same meaning.
    The extended session s of protocol π (or, extended session (σ, π)) in an execution prefix is defined
inductively by inspecting the ITIs in this prefix by order of invocation: Each newly invoked ITI M
is added to the extended session if (a) M is a main party of this session, or (b) M is a subroutine
of an ITI that is already in the extended session, or (c) M was invoked by an ITI that is already
a sub-party of this extended session. An ITI is a sub-party of an extended session if it is in the
extended session but is not a main party of the session. (Informally, the extended session (s, π)
includes the transitive closure of the invocation relation rooted at the main ITIs of the session, if
we disregard invocations made by the main ITIs via their subroutine output tapes.)7

Comparison with the modeling of Section 2.1. Recall that the notion of a protocol in
Section 2.1 is different than here: There, a protocol is a fixed set of machines, with essentially
one restriction: All subroutines of a machine in a protocol should also be machines in the same
protocol. In this sense, a protocol as per Section 2.1 most closely corresponds to an extended session
of a protocol as per the current definition, with the exception that here we impose the additional
restriction that the main parties of the protocol session have the same code and SID. (In a way,
this restriction is the price paid for the ability to model a more dynamic protocol structure.) See
more discussion in Section 3.3.2.

3.2    Polynomial time ITMs and parameterized systems
We adapt the standard notion of “resource bounded computation” to the distributed setting con-
sidered in this work. This requires accommodating systems with dynamically changing number
of components and communication patterns, and where multiple protocols and sessions thereof
co-exist. As usual in cryptography, where universal statements on the capabilities of any feasible
computation are key, notions of security depend in a strong way on the precise formulation of re-
source bounded computation. However, as we will see, current formulations do not behave well in a
dynamically changing distributed setting such as the one considered in this work. We thus propose
an extension that seems adequate within the present model.
    Before proceeding with the definition itself, we first note that the notion of “resource bounded
computation” is typically used for two quite different purposes. One is the study of efficient
algorithms. Here we would like to examine the number of steps required as a function of the
complexity of the input, often interpreted as the input length. Another purpose is bounding the
power of feasible computation, often for the purpose of security. Here we typically do not care
   7
     In previous versions of this work the extended session was defined differently - it was the set of main parties
of the session and their subsidiaries. The present definition simplifies the formalism in situations where we want to
include in the extended session of a protocol also ITIs which are not subsidiaries of the main parties of the session.
See further discussion in Sections 5.2 and 7.3.1.




                                                         27
whether the computation is using “asymptotically efficient algorithms”; we are only concerned
with what can be done within the given resource bounds.
    At first glance it appears that for security we should be only interested in the second inter-
pretation. However, recall that to argue security we often provide an algorithmic reduction that
translates an attacker against the scheme in question to an attacker against some underlying con-
struct that is assumed to be secure. We would like this reduction to be efficient in the former,
algorithmic sense. Furthermore, the very definition of security, formulated later, will require pre-
senting an efficient transformation (namely, a simulator) from one feasible computation to another.
We conclude that a good model should capture both interpretations.
    Let T : N → N. Traditionally, a Turing machine µ is said to be T -bounded if, given any input
of length n, µ halts within at most T (n) steps. There are several ways to generalize this notion
to the case of ITMs. One option is to require that each activation of the ITM completes within
T (n) steps, where n is either, say, the length of the current incoming message, or, say, the overall
length of incoming messages on all externally writable tapes to the ITM. However, this option
does not bound the overall number of activations of the ITM; this allows a system of ITMs to
have unbounded executions, thus unbounded “computing power”, even when all its components
are resource bounded. This does not seem to capture the intuitive concept of resource bounded
distributed computation.
    Another alternative is then to let T bound the overall number of steps taken by the ITM since
its invocation, regardless of the number of activations. But what should n be, in this case? One
option is to let n be the overall length of incoming messages on all externally writable tapes of the
ITM. However, this would still allow a situation where a system of ITMs, all of whose components
are T -bounded, consumes an unbounded number of resources. This is so since ITIs may send each
other messages of repeatedly increasing lengths. In [gmra89] this problem was solved by setting n
to be the length of the input only. Indeed, in the [gmra89] setting, where ITMs cannot write to
input tapes of each other, this solution is adequate. However, in our setting no such restrictions
exist; thus, when n is set to the overall length of the input received so far, infinite runs of a systems
are possible even if all the ITIs are T -bounded. Furthermore, infinite “chains” of ITIs can be
created, where each ITI in the chain invokes the next one, again causing potentially infinite runs.
    We prevent this “infinite runs” problem via the following simple mechanism. We expect each
message to include a special field, called the import field of the message. The import field contains a
natural number called the import of the message. We then define the run-time budget, n, of an ITI at
a certain configuration to be the sum of the imports of the messages received by the ITI, minus the
imports of the messages sent by the ITI. An ITI is T -bounded if, at any configuration, the number
of steps it took since invocation is at most T (n). As we will see, this provision allows guaranteeing
that, for all “reasonable” functions T (specifically, whenever T is increasing and super-additive),
the overall number of steps taken in a system of ITMs which are all T -bounded is finite. In fact,
this number is bounded by T (n), where n is the import of the initial input to the system (namely,
the import of the message written on the input tape of the initial ITI in the initial configuration).
Intuitively, this provision treats the imports of messages as “tokens” that provide run-time. An ITI
receives tokens when it gets incoming messages with import, and gives out tokens to other ITIs by
writing messages with import to other ITIs. This way, it is guaranteed that the number of tokens
in the system remains unchanged, even if ITIs are generated dynamically and write on the tapes
of each other.

Definition 6 (T -bounded, PPT) Recall that the import of a message is the value written in the
import field of the message. Let T : N → N. An ITM µ is locally T -bounded if, at any prefix of an

                                                   28
execution of a system of ITMs, any ITI M with program µ satisfies the following condition. The
overall number of computational steps taken by M so far is at most T (n), where n = nI − nO , nI
is the overall imports of the messages written by other machines on the externally writable tapes
of M , and nO is the overall imports of the messages written by M on externally writable tapes of
other machines.
    T -bounded ITMs are defined inductively: A locally T -bounded ITM that does not make external-
writes with forced-write is T -bounded. In addition, a locally T -bounded ITM, all of whose external-
writes with forced-write specify a recipient ITM which is T -bounded, is T -bounded as well. ITM µ
is PPT if there exists a polynomial p such that µ is p-bounded. A protocol is PPT if it is PPT as
an ITM.

     Let us briefly motivate two ways in which Definition 6 departs from the traditional formulation
of resource-bounded computation. First, in contrast to the traditional notion where only inputs
count for the resource bound, here we allow even messages written to other tapes of the recipient
to “provide run-time”. One use of this extra generality is in modeling cases where ITIs are invoked
(i.e., activated for the first time) via a message that is not an input message.
     Second, here the import is represented in binary, instead of the traditional “length of message”
convention. This allows the import of a message to be separate from its length and the amount
of information it contains. Furthermore, it provides additional flexibility in distributing run-time
among multiple subroutines. (For instance, consider the following two situations: In one situation
we have an algorithm that uses a large number ` of subroutines, where all subroutines expect
to receive a single input message and take the same number, n, of computational steps. In the
other situation, it is known that one of the subroutines will eventually need n computational steps,
whereas the remaining subroutines will require only m steps, where m  n. Still, it is not known
in advance which of the subroutines will need n steps. The traditional length-of-input formalism
does not distinguish between the two situations, since in both the overall algorithm must take time
`n. (Indeed, it takes `n time only to invoke the ` subroutines.) In contrast, the present formalism
allows distinguishing between the two situations: In the first one the overall algorithm runs in time
`n, whereas in the second it runs in time only `(m + log n) + n.)
     For clarity and generality we refrain from specifying any specific mechanism for making sure
that ITMs are T -bounded by some specific function T . In Section 3.3.4 we informally discuss
some specific methods, as well as other potential formulations of resource-bounded distributed
computation.

Consistency with standard notions of resource-bounded computation. We show that
an execution of a resource-bounded system of ITMs can be simulated on a standard TM with
comparable resources. That is, recall that T : N → N is super-additive if T (n + n0 ) ≥ T (n) + T (n0 )
for all n, n0 . We have:

Proposition 7 Let T : N → N be a super-additive increasing function. If the initial ITM in
a system (I, C) of ITMs is T -bounded, and in addition the control function C is computable in
time T 0 (·), then an execution of the system can be simulated on a single (non-interactive) Turing
machine µ, which takes for input the initial input x and runs in time O(T (n)T 0 (T (n))) where n is
the import of x. The same holds also for extended systems of ITMs, as long as the control function
does not increase the import in any external-write request, and all the ITMs invoked are T -bounded.
    In particular, if both I and C are PPT then so is µ. Furthermore, if the import of x is taken
to be its length, then µ is PPT in the standard length-of-input sense.

                                                  29
Proof: We first claim that the overall number of configurations in an execution of a system (I, C)
where I is T -bounded is at most T (n), where n is the import of the initial input of I. As mentioned
above, this can be seen by treating the bits of resource messages as “tokens” that give run-time.
Initially, there are n tokens in the system. The tokens are “passed around” between ITIs, but their
number remains unchanged throughout. More formally, recall that an execution of a system of
ITMs consists of a sequence of activations, where each activation is a sequence of configurations of
the active ITI. Thus, an execution is essentially a sequence of configurations of ITIs. Let mi be
the set of ITIs that were active up till the ith configuration in the execution. For each M ∈ mi
let nM,i be the overall import of the messages received by ITI M at the last configuration where it
was active before the ith configuration in the execution, minus the overall import of the messages
written by M to other ITIs in all previous configurations. Since I is T -bounded we have that M is
also T -bounded, namely
                     P                                  P taken by each M ∈ mi is at most T (nM,i ).
                           for any i, the number of steps
It follows thatP i = M ∈mi (# steps P  taken by M ) ≤ M ∈mi T   P(nM,i ). By super-additivity of T we
have that i ≤ M ∈mi T (nM,i ) ≤ T ( M ∈mi nM,i ). However, M ∈mi nM,i ≤ n. Thus i ≤ T (n).
    The machine µ that simulates the execution of the system (I, C) simply writes, all the configu-
rations of (I, C) one after the other, until it reaches a halting configuration of I. It then accepts if
this configuration accepts. Since T is super-additive and the control function does not increase the
imports specified in external-write instructions, the overall number of steps taken by µ is at most
T (n), plus the time spent on evaluating the control function C. However, C is evaluated at most
T (n) times, on inputs of import at most T (n) each. The bound follows.                              
    We note that the control functions of all the systems in this work run in linear time.

Parameterized systems. The definition of T -bounded ITMs guarantees that an execution of a
system of bounded ITMs completes in bounded time. However, it does not provide any guarantee
regarding the relative computing times of different ITMs in a system. To simplify the formalization
of security properties, and in particular to allow for an asymptotic treatment based on a single
parameter that tends to infinity, we will want to bound the variability in the computing powers of
different ITMs. To do that, we will restrict attention to systems where there is a common value,
called the security parameter, that serves as a minimum value for the initial run-time budget of each
ITI. More specifically, we say that an ITM is parameterized with security parameter k if it does not
start running unless its overall import is at least k. (We can think of k as being part of the code of
the machine, i.e. written on the identity tape.) A system of ITMs is parameterized with security
parameter k if all the ITIs ever generated in the system are parameterized with security parameter
k, and in addition the import of the initial input to the system, i.e. the import of the input to the
initial ITI, is at most some function of (specifically, polynomial in) the security parameter.8

3.3    Discussion
We further discuss the model of computation and compare it with other general models in the
literature that are aimed at capturing distributed computation with concurrently running processes
- some of which explicitly aim at modeling security of protocols. A very incomplete list of such
models includes the CSP model of Hoare [h85], the CCS model and π-calculus of Milner [m89, m99]
   8
     We remark that the restriction to parameterized systems is by no means essential for a sound treatment of security.
In fact, it is somewhat restrictive in that it does not allow modeling natural situations where different computational
entities have vastly different computational powers. We adopt it only for sake of simplicity and readability. Extending
the present formulation to capture situations where there is no a priori bound on the relative computational powers
of entities in a system is left for future work.


                                                          30
(that is based on the λ-calculus as its basic model of computation), the spi-calculus of Abadi and
Gordon [ag97] (that is based on the π-calculus), the framework of Lincoln et al. [lmms98] (that uses
the functional representation of probabilistic polynomial time from [mms98]), the I/O automata
of Merritt and Lynch [ly96], the probabilistic I/O automata of Lynch, Segala and Vaandrager
[sl95, lsv03], the Abstract Cryptography model of Maurer and Renner [mr11], and the equational
approach of Micciancio and Tessaro [mt13]. (Other approaches are mentioned in the Appendix.)
    We partition the discussion to four parts: The use of ITMs, the use of identities, the external-
write mechanism, and the modeling of resource-bounded computation. It is stressed however that
the partitioning is somewhat arbitrary and all topics are of course inter-related.

3.3.1   Motivating the use of ITMs

A first definitional choice is to use an explicit, imperative formalism as the underlying computational
model. That is, a computation is represented as a sequence of mechanical steps (as in Turing
machines) rather than as a “thought experiment” as in functional languages (such as the λ-calculus),
or in a denotational way as in Domain Theory. Indeed, while this imperative model is less “elegant”
and not as easily amenable to abstraction and formal reasoning, it most directly captures the
complexity of computations, as well as side-effects that result from the physical aspects of the
computation. Indeed, this modeling provides a direct way of capturing the interplay between the
complexity of local computation, communication, randomness, physical side channels, and resource-
bounded adversarial activity. This interplay is often at the heart of the security of cryptographic
protocols.
    Moreover, the imperative formalism strives to faithfully represent the way in which existing
computers operate in a network. Examples include the duality between data and code, which
facilitates the modeling of dynamic code generation, transmission and activation (“download”),
and the use of a small number of physical communication channels to interact with a large (in fact,
potentially unbounded) number of other parties. It also allows considering “low level” complexity
issues that are sometimes glossed over, such as the work spent on the addressing, sending, and
receiving of messages as a function of the message length or the address space.
    Another advantage of using imperative formalism that directly represents the complexity of com-
putations is that it facilitates the modeling of adversarial, yet computationally bounded, scheduling
of events in a distributed system.
    Finally, our imperative formalism naturally allows for a concrete, parametric treatment of se-
curity, as well as asymptotic treatment that meshes well with computational complexity theory.
    Several imperative models of computations exist in the literature, such as the original Turing
machine model, several RAM and PRAM models, and arithmetic and logical circuits. Our choice of
using Turing machines is mostly based on tradition, and is by no means essential. Any other “rea-
sonable” model that allows representing resource-bounded computation together with adversarially
controlled, resource bounded communication would do.
    On the downside, we note that the ITM model, or “programming language” provides only a
relatively low level abstraction of computer programs and protocols. In contrast, current literature
describes protocols in a much higher-level (and often informal) language. One way to bridge this
gap is to develop a library of subroutines, or even a programming language that will allow for
more convenient representation of protocols while not losing the correspondence to ITMs (or, say,
interactive RAM machines). An alternative way is to demonstrate “security preserving correspon-
dences” between programs written in more abstract models of computation and limited forms of
the ITMs model, such as the correspondences in [ar00, mw04, ch11, c+05]. We leave this line of

                                                  31
research for future work.

3.3.2   On the identity mechanism

The extended identity, i.e. the contents of the identity tape, is the mechanism used by the model
to distinguish between ITIs (representing computational processes) in a distributed computation.
That is, the model guarantees that no two ITIs have the same extended identity. Furthermore, the
identity of an ITI M is determined by the ITI that invokes (creates) M . While it is fully accessible
to the ITI itself, the extended identity cannot be modified throughout the execution. Finally, the
extended identity is partitioned into three parts: The code (program), the Session ID, and the
Party ID. We motivate these choices.

Identities are algorithmically and externally chosen. The fact that the identity is deter-
mined by the process that creates the new ITI is aimed at representing natural software engineering
practice. Indeed, when one creates a new computational process, one usually provides the program
- either directly or via some proxy mechanism - plus sufficient information for identifying this pro-
cess from other ones. Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that externally chosen identities are
essential for performing basic tasks such as broadcast and Byzantine agreement within a general
distributed computing framework such as the present one [llr02].
    Allowing the creating ITI to determine identities algorithmically allows expressing this natural
real-world ability within the model. The protocol of [b+ 11] is an example for how this ability can
be meaningfully used, and then analyzed, within the present model.
    Preventing an ITI from modifying its own identity is done mainly to simplify the delineation
of individual computational processes in a system. We allow ourselves to do it since no expressive
power appears to be lost (indeed, ITIs can always invoke other ITIs with related identities and
programs).

Including the code in the identity. Including the ITI’s code in the (extended) identity is
a useful tool in the identification of properties of ITIs by other ITIs. Indeed, the external-write
mechanism (discussed at more length later on) allows the recipient ITI to sometimes see the code
of the sending ITI. It also allows the delivery of messages to depend on the code of the recipient
ITI. This convention might appear a bit odd at first, since it is of course possible to write the code
of an ITI in an extremely generic way (e.g. as a universal Turing machine) and then include the
actual program in the first message that the ITI receives. Furthermore, verifying practically any
interesting property of arbitrary code is bound to be impossible.
    Still, general undecidability notwithstanding, it is indeed possible to write code that will make it
easy to verify that the code has certain desirable properties, e.g. that it implements some algorithm,
that it does not disclose some data, that it only communicates with certain types of other ITIs,
that its run-time is bounded, etc. This allows the protocol designer to include in the protocol π
instructions to verify that the ITIs that π interacts with satisfy a basic set of properties. As we
will see, this is an extremely powerful tool that makes the framework more expressive.

On globally unique identities. The guarantee that extended identities are globally unique
throughout the system simplifies the model and facilitates protocol analysis. However, it might
appear at first that this “model guarantee” is an over-simplification that does not represent reality.
Indeed, in reality there may exist multiple processes that have identical programs and identities,


                                                  32
but are physically separate and are not even aware of each other. To answer this concern we note
that such situations are indeed expressible within the present model - simply consider protocols
that ignore a certain portion of the identity. (We note that other formalisms, such as the IITM
model [dkmr05, k06, kt13], mandate having part of the identity inaccessible to the program.)
    Furthermore, the model allows multiple ITIs in an execution to have the same (non-extended)
identity - as long as they have different programs. This again underlines the fact that (non-
extended) identities need not be unique.

On the SID mechanism. The SID mechanism provides a relatively simple and flexible way to
delineate individual protocol sessions in a dynamically changing distributed system. In particular it
allows capturing, within the formal model, the intuitive notion of “creating a session of a distributed
protocol” as a collection of local actions at different parts of the system.
    Indeed, some sort of agreement or coordination between the entities that create participants
in a protocol session is needed. The SID mechanism embodies this agreement in the form of a
joint identifier. We briefly consider a number of common methods for creating logically-separate
protocol sessions in distributed systems and describe how the SID mechanism fits in. Finally we
point out some possible relaxations.
    One simple method for designing a system with individual protocol sessions is to set all the
protocol sessions statically, in advance, as part of the system design. The SID mechanism fits such
systems naturally - indeed, here it is trivial (and convenient) to ensure that all ITIs in a protocol
session have the same SID.
    Another, more dynamic method for designing systems with multiple individual protocol sessions
is to have each protocol session start off with a single ITI (representing a computational process
within a single physical entity) and then have all other ITIs that belong to that protocol session be
created indigenously from within the protocol session itself. This can be done even when these other
ITIs model physical processes in other parts of the system, and without prior coordination - say
by sending of messages, either directly or via some subroutine. Indeed, most prevalent distributed
protocols (in particular, client-server protocols) fall into this natural category.
    The SID mechanism allows capturing such protocols in a straightforward way: The first ITI
in a protocol session (π, s) is created, by way of an incoming input that specifies code π and SID
s. All the other ITIs of this session are created, with the same SID and code, by way of receiving
communication from other ITIs in this session. (Jumping ahead, we note that in the model of
protocol execution described in the next sections, receiving network communication is modeled by
way of receiving subroutine-output from an ITI that models the actual communication. This ITI is
a subroutine of both the sending ITI and of the receiving ITI.) All the functionalities in Section 7
are written in this manner.
    Alternatively, one may wish to design a system where protocol sessions are created dynamically,
but computational processes that make up a new protocol session are created “hierarchically” via
inputs from existing processes rather than autonomously from within the protocol session itself.
Here again the SID mechanism is a natural formalism. Indeed, if the existing processes (ITIs)
have sufficient information to create new ITIs that have the same SID, then the creation of a new
protocol session can be done without additional coordination. When this is not the case, additional
coordination might be needed to agree on a common SID. See [blr04, b+ 11] for a protocol and
more discussion of this situation.
    Either way, we stress that the SID should not be confused with values that are determined
(and potentially agreed upon) as part of the execution of the protocol session. Indeed, the SID is


                                                  33
determined before the session is invoked and remains immutable throughout.
    One can also formulate alternative conventions regarding the delineation of protocol sessions.
For example one may allow the SIDs of the parties in a protocol session to be related in some other
way, rather than being equal. Such a more general convention may allow more loose coordination
between the ITIs in a protocol session. (For instance, one may allow the participants to have
different SIDs, and only require that there exists some global function that, given a state of the
system and a pair of SIDs, determines whether these SIDs belong to the same session.) Also, SIDs
may be allowed to change during the course of the execution. However, such mechanisms would
further complicate the model, and the extra generality obtained does not seem essential for our
treatment.
    Finally we remark that other frameworks, such as [hs11], put additional restrictions on the
format of the SIDs. Specifically, in [hs11] the SID of a protocol session is required to include
the SID of the calling protocol session, enforcing a “hierarchical” SID structure. While this is
a convenient convention in many cases, it is rather limiting in others. Furthermore, the main
properties of the model hold regardless of whether this convention is adhered to or not.

Deleting ITIs. The definition of a system of ITMs does not provide any means to “delete” an
ITI from the system. That is, once an ITI is invoked, it remains present in the system for the rest
of the execution, even after it has halted. In particular, its identity remains valid and “reserved”
throughout. If a halted ITI is activated, it performs no operation and the initial ITI is activated
next. The main reason for this convention is to avoid ambiguities in addressing of messages to ITIs.
Modeling ephemeral and reusable identities can be done via protocol-specific structures that are
separate from the identity mechanism provided by the model.

3.3.3   On the external-write mechanism and the control function

As discussed earlier, traditional models of distributed computation model inter-component commu-
nication via dedicated named channels. That is, a component can, under various restrictions, write
information to, and read information from an abstract construct that corresponds to a name of a
channel. These channel names are typically treated as static system parameters, in the sense that
they are not mutable by the programs running in the system. They also provide pre-set matching
between the sending process and the receiving one. Furthermore, sending information on a channel
is often treated as a single computational step regardless of the number of components in the system
or the length of the message.
     That modeling of the communication is clean and elegant. It also facilitates reasoning about
protocols framed within the model. In particular, it facilitates analytical operations that separate
a system into smaller components by “cutting the channels”, and re-connecting the components in
different ways. However, as discussed earlier, this modeling does not allow representing realistic
situations where the number and makeup of components changes as the system evolves. It also does
not capture commonplace situations where the sender has only partial information on the identity
or code of the recipient. It also doesn’t account for the cost of message addressing and delivery; in
a dynamically growing systems this complexity may be an important factor. Finally, it does not
account for dynamic generation of new programs.
     The external-write instruction, together with the control function, are aimed at providing a suf-
ficiently expressive and flexible mechanism that better captures the act of transmitting information
from one process (ITI) to another. We highlight and motivate salient aspects of this mechanism.


                                                 34
Invoking new ITIs. The model allows for dynamic invocation of new ITIs as an algorithmic
step. This feature is important for modeling situations where parties join a computation as it
unfolds, and moreover where parties “invite” other parties to join. It is also crucial for modeling
situations where the numbers of ITIs and protocol sessions that run in the systems are not known
in advance.
    Indeed, such situations are commonplace. Examples include open peer-to-peer protocols (such
as, e.g., public blockchain systems), client-initiated interaction with a server where the server learns
that the client exists only via a message of the protocol itself, and programs or software updates
that are generated algorithmically, and then “downloaded” and incorporated in a computation “on
the fly”.

Identifying the recipient ITI. A basic tenet of the external-write mechanism is that the writing
ITI is responsible for identifying the recipient ITI in a sufficiently unambiguous way. The external-
write operation provides two different modes for identifying the recipient. These modes are captured
by the value of the forced-write flag. When the flag is set, an external-write to an ITI that does not
exist in the sysem results in the creation of a new ITI. When the flag is not set, an external-write
to an ITI that does not exist in the system is either directed to an existing ITI that best matches
the specification provided in the operation, or fails if no existing ITI matches the specification.
    The two modes represent two different real-life operations: The first mode represents the cre-
ation of a new computational process. Here the full information regarding the identity and program
of the process must be provided. In contrast, the second mode represents information passed to an
existing process without intent to create a new one. Here there is no need to completely specify
the identity and program of the recipient; one only needs to specify the recipient well enough so as
to enable delivery. This flexibility is convenient in situations where the sender does not know the
full code, or even the full identity, of the recipient.
    Two additional comments are in order here: First it is stressed that the writing ITI is not
notified whether the target ITI M 0 currently exists in the system. Indeed, incorporating such a
“built-in” notification mechanism would be unnatural for a distributed system.9
    Second, we note that the predicate-based mechanism for determining the recipient ITI in case
that f = 0 allows much flexibility - all the way from completely determining the target extended
identity to allowing almost any other ITI. One can restrict the set of predicates allowed by setting
appropriate control functions. We also note that the convention of picking the first-created ITI
that satisfies the given predicate P is convenient in that it guarantees consistency: If at any point
in the execution a message with predicate P was delivered to an ITI M then all future messages
that specify predicate P will be delivered to M . This holds even when there are multiple ITIs that
satisfy P , and even when new ITIs that also satisfy P are added to the system.

Identifying the sending ITI. The external-write mechanism provides two modes regarding the
information that the recipient ITI learns about the identity and program of the writing ITI: If the
writing ITI sets the reveal-sender-id flag to 1, then the recipient ITI learns the extended identity
   9
    We remark that previous versions of this work did, unintentionally, provide such an implicit notification mecha-
nism. Specifically, they did not allow the co-existence of ITIs with the same identity and different codes. This meant
that an external-write to an ITI that differs from an existing ITI only in its code would fail. This allowed some
unnatural ‘model attacks’ where an ITI A, that knows that an ITI B is planning to invoke an ITI C could affect the
behavior of B by simply creating an ITI C 0 that has the same identity as C but different code. This would cause B‘s
request to create C to fail. Such transmission of information from A to B without explicitly sending messages does
not reflect realistic attacks, and interferes with the definitions of security in later sections.


                                                         35
of the sending ITI. If the flag is 0, then the receiving ITI does not get any information regarding
the identity of the writing ITI.
    These two modes represent two “extremes:” The first mode represents the more traditional
“fixed links communication” where the recipient fully knows the identity and program of the sending
entity. This makes sense, for instance, where the recipient ITI is the one that invoked the sender
ITI as a subroutine, and the current message is an output of the subroutine, returned to its caller.
(In this case, the target tape will be the subroutine-output tape.)
    The other extreme represents situations where the recipient ITI has no knowledge of the sending
ITI, such as an incoming message on a physical communication link coming from a remote and
unknown source.
    It is of course possible to extend the formalism to represent intermediate situations, such as
the natural situation where the recipient learns the identity of the sending ITI but not its code,
or perhaps only some partial information on the identity and code. We chose not to do it for
sake of simplicity, as the present two modes suffice for our purposes. (Also, one can capture these
intermediate situations within the model by having the sending ITI perform a two-step send: The
sending ITI M creates a new ITI M 00 that receives the message from M with reveal-sender-id flag 1,
and sends it to the recipient M 0 along with the partial information on M , with the reveal-sender-id
1. This way, the recipient learns the specified partial information on M . Seeing the code of M 00
allows the recipient to trust that the partial information on M , provided by M 00 , is correct.)
    Allowing the recipient to see the code of the sending ITI enables the recipient to make meaningful
decisions based on some non-trivial properties of that code. (The mechanism proposed in the
previous paragraph is an example of such usage, where M 0 verified properties of the code of M 00 .)
We note that this requires writing code in a way that allows salient properties to be “recognizable”
by the recipient. This can be done using standard encoding mechanisms. Indeed, a peer may accept
one representation of a program, and reject another representation, even though the two might be
functionally equivalent.

Jumping to the next received message. Recall that Definition 4 allows an ITM to move, in
a single instruction, the reading head on each of the three incoming data tapes to the beginning
of the next incoming message. At first, this instruction seems superfluous: Why not let the ITM
simply move the head in the usual way, namely cell by cell?
    The reason is that such an instruction becomes necessary in order to maintain a reasonable
notion of resource-bounded computation in a heterogeneous and untrusted network, where the
computational powers of participants vary considerably, and in addition some participants may be
adversarial. In such a system, powerful participants may try to “overwhelm” less powerful par-
ticipants by simply sending them very long messages. In reality, such an “attack” can be easily
thwarted by having parties simply “drop” long messages, namely abort attempt to interpreted
incoming messages that become too long. However, without a “jump to the next message” instruc-
tion, the ITM model does not allow such an abortion, since the reading head must be moved to the
next incoming message in a cell-by-cell manner. (There are of course other ways in which powerful
parties may try to “overwhelm” less powerful ones. But, with respect to these, the ITM model
seems to adequately represent reality.)
    We remark that the above discussion exemplifies the subtleties involved with modeling systems
of ITMs. In particular, the notions of security in subsequent sections would have different technical
meaning without the ability to jump to the beginning of the next incoming message. (In contrast,
in a RAM machine model, such a provision would not be necessary.) A similar phenomenon has


                                                 36
been independently observed in [p06] in the context of Zero-Knowledge protocols.

The control function as an ITM. The control function is a convenient mechanism, in that it
allows separating the definition of the basic communication model from higher-level models that
are then used to capture more specific concerns and definitions of security. Indeed, a number of
other definitions (such as [dkmr05, cv12, ccl15, csv16]) can be captured within the present basic
framework, by using appropriate control functions.
    We note that an alternative and equivalent formulation of a system of ITMs might replace the
control function by a special-purpose “router ITM” C that controls the flow of information between
ITIs. Specifically, in this formulation the external input to the system is written on the input tape
of C. Once activated for the first time, C copies its input to the input tape of the initial ITM I.
From now on, all ITIs are allowed to write only to the input tape of C, and C is allowed to write to
any externally writable tape of any other ITI. In simple (non-extended) systems, C always writes
the requested value to the requested tape of the requested recipient, as long as the operation is
allowed. In extended systems, C may write arbitrary values to the externally writable tapes of ITIs
(subject to C’s runtime limitations, and without increasing the imports of delivered messages).

3.3.4   On capturing resource-bounded computations

Recognizing PPT ITMs. One general concern regarding notions of PPT Turing machines is
how to decide whether a given ITM is PPT. Of course, it is in general undecidable whether a given
ITM is PPT. The standard way of getting around this issue is to specify a set of rules on encodings
of ITMs such that: (a) it is easy to verify whether a given string obeys the rules, (b) all strings
obeying these rules encode PPT ITMs, and (c) for essentially any PPT ITM there is a string that
encodes it and obeys the rules. If there exists such a set of rules for a given notion of PPT, then
we say that the notion is efficiently recognizable.
    It can be readily seen that the notion of PPT in Definition 6 is efficiently recognizable. Specif-
ically, an encoding σ of a locally PPT ITM will first specify an exponent c. It is then understood
that the ITM encoded in σ counts its computational steps and halts after nc steps. An encod-
ing of a PPT ITM will guarantee in addition that that all the codes specified by the external
                             0
write operations are also nc -bounded with an exponent c0 ≤ c. These are simple conditions that
are straightforward to recognize. We note that other notions of PPT protocols, such as those in
[hmu09, hs11] are not known to be efficiently recognizable. This may indeed be regarded as a
barrier to general applicability of these notions.

An alternative notion of time-bounded computation: Imposing an overall bound. Re-
call that it does not suffice to simply bound the run-time of each individual activation of an ITI
by some function of the length of the contents of the externally writable tapes. This is so since, as
discussed prior to Definition 6, we might still have unbounded executions of systems even when all
the ITMs are bounded. Definition 6 gets around this problem by making a restriction on the overall
number of steps taken by the ITI so far. An alternative approach might be to directly impose an
overall bound on the run-time of the system. For instance, one can potentially bound the overall
number of bits that are externally written in the execution. This approach seems attractive at
first since it is considerably simpler; it also avoids direct “linking” of the run-time in an activation
of an ITM to the run-times in previous activations of this ITM. However this approach has a
severe drawback: It causes an execution of a system to halt at a point which is determined by the
overall number of steps taken by the system, rather than by the local behavior of the last ITI to

                                                  37
be activated (namely the initial ITI). This provides an “artificial” way for the initial ITI to obtain
global information on the execution via the timing in which the execution halts. (For instance,
the initial ITI I can start in a rejecting state, and then pass control to another ITI M . If I ever
gets activated again, it moves to an accepting state. Now, whether I gets activated again depends
only on whether the computation carried out by M , together with the ITIs that M might have
invoked, exceeds the allotted number of steps, which in turn may be known to I. Thus, we have
that whether I accepts depends on information that should not be “legitimately available” to I in
a distributed system.)
    Jumping ahead, we note that this property would cause the notions of security considered in
the rest of this work to be artificially restrictive. Specifically, the environment would now be able
to distinguish between two executions as soon as the overall number of steps in the two executions
differs even by one operation. In contrast, we would like to consider two systems equivalent from
the point of view of the environment even in cases where the overall number of computational steps
and communicated bits in the two systems might differ by some polynomial amount.

Bounding the run-time by a function of the security parameter alone. Another al-
ternative way to define resource bounded ITMs is to consider parameterized systems as defined
above, and then restrict the number of steps taken by each ITI in the computation by a function
of the security parameter alone. That is, let the overall number of steps taken by each ITI in
the system be bounded by T (k), where k is the security parameter. This formulation is actually
quite popular; In particular, it is the notion of choice in earlier versions of this work as well as in
[c00, pw00, bpw04, bpw07, mms03, c+05].
    Bounding the run-time this way is simpler than the method used here. It also allows proving a
proposition akin to Proposition 7. However, it has a number of drawbacks. First, it does not allow
capturing algorithms and protocols which work for any input size, or alternatively work for any
number of activations. For instance, any signature scheme that is PPT in the security parameter
alone can only sign a number of messages that is bounded by a fixed polynomial in the security
parameter. Similarly, it can only sign messages whose length is bounded by a fixed polynomial in the
security parameter. In contrast, standard definitions of cryptographic primitives such as signature
schemes, encryption schemes, or pseudorandom functions require schemes to handle a number of
activations that is determined by an arbitrary PPT adversary, and thus cannot be bounded by
any specific polynomial in the security parameter. Consequently, bounding the run-time by a fixed
function of the security parameter severely restricts the set of protocols and tasks that can be
expressed and analyzed within the framework.10
    Furthermore, when this definition of bounded computation is used, security definitions are
inevitably weaker, since the standard quantification over “all PPT adversaries” fails to consider
those adversaries that are polynomial in the length of their inputs but not bounded by a polynomial
in the security parameter. In fact, there exist protocols that are secure against adversaries that
are PPT in the security parameter, but insecure against adversaries that are PPT in the length of
their inputs (see e.g. the separating example in [hu05]).
    Another drawback of bounding the run-time by a fixed function of the security parameter is
that it does not allow taking advantage of the universality of computation and the duality between
machines and their encodings. Let us elaborate, considering the case of PPT ITMs: When the
  10
     We remark that the difference is not only “cosmetic.” For instance, pseudorandom functions with respect to
a number of queries that is bounded by a fixed polynomial in the security parameter can be constructed without
computational assumptions, whereas the standard notion implies one-way functions.



                                                      38
run-time can vary with the length of the input, it is possible to have a single PPT ITM U that
can “simulate” the operation of all PPT ITMs, when given sufficiently long input. (As the name
suggests, U will be the universal Turing machine that receives the description of the ITM to be
simulated, plus sufficiently long input that allows completing the simulation.) This universality is
at the heart of the notion of “feasible computation”. Also, this property turns out to be useful in
gaining assurance in the validity of the definition of security, defined later in this work.
    Bounding the run-time of ITMs by a function of the security parameter alone does not seem to
allow for such a natural property to hold. Indeed, as discussed in Section 4.3, some of the properties
of the notion of security defined here no longer hold when the run-time of ITMs is bounded this
way.

Thanks. We thank Oded Goldreich, Dennis Hofheinz, Ralf Küsters, Yehuda Lindell, Jörn Müller-
Quade, Rainer Steinwandt and Dominic Unruh for very useful discussions on modeling PPT ITMs
and systems, and for pointing out to us shortcomings of the definition of PPT ITMs in earlier
versions of this work and of some other definitional attempts. Discussions with Dennis and Ralf
were particularly instructive.


4     Protocol execution and UC-emulation
This section formulates the model of protocol execution, and then presents and studies the definition
of UC-emulation which will be a central tool in defining security of protocols. At a high level, the
definition is the same as the one in Section 2.2; however, it is formulated within the general model of
computation of Section 3. To allow for a more in-depth study of several formulations and variants
of protocol emulation, we defer formulating the notion of realizing an ideal functionality to the next
section (Section 5).
    Section 4.1 presents the model for protocol execution. Section 4.2 defines protocol emulation.
Sections 4.3 and 4.4 present some alternative formulations and variants of the definitions.

4.1   The model of protocol execution
The model of protocol execution extends the model of protocol execution from Section 2.2 to the
more expressive formalism of Section 3.1. As there, the model does not explicitly represent com-
munication channels between machines, nor does it include an explicit provision for representing
corrupted parties. Section 7 discusses and exemplifies how to capture several common commu-
nication and party-corruption models on top of the basic model of execution presented in this
section.
    Formally, the model of protocol execution is defined in terms of a system of ITMs, as formulated
in Section 3.1.1. Recall that a system of ITMs consists of an initial ITM and a control function. The
initial ITM will correspond to the environment. The control function will encode the adversary,
the protocol, and the rules of how the various ITIs can communicate with each other.
    Before proceeding to the actual definition, let us highlight some of the challenges in extending the
definitional ideas from the setting of Section 2.2 to the present setting. Recall that the mechanism
for ITI communication, namely the external-write mechanism, mandates that the writing ITI be
aware of the identity (and sometimes program) of the recipient. Furthermore, the mechanism
sometimes allows the recipient ITI to know the identity and program of the sender. This appears
to be incompatible with the “subroutine substitution” composition operation - at least as defined in


                                                  39
Section 2. Indeed, subroutine substitution replaces the program of the subroutine with a different
program, and furthermore the calling ITI should be oblivious to this replacement. The model will
thus need to provide a way to reconcile these two contradicting requirements.
    Furthermore, since our model involves a single environment machine that takes on the role of
multiple processes (ITIs), we must also provide a mechanism for making inputs coming from the
environment appear, to the recipient, as inputs coming from ITIs other than the environment.
    The model of computation will reconcile these requirements, as well as other similar ones, by
defining an appropriate control function.

                 Execution of protocol π with environment E and adversary A

   An execution of protocol π, adversary A, and environment E is a run of an extended, parameterized
                                                                                              π,A
   system of ITMs (see Section 3.1.1) with initial ITM E, and the following control function Cexec :

      1. E may pass inputs to ITIs of its choice, as long as all of these ITIs have the same SID. The
         control function sets the code of all these ITIs to π. E can also specify the code and extended
         identity of the writing ITI to values other than its own. In addition, E may pass inputs to A,
         who is identified by having PID . The test SID, s, is the SID of the ITIs written to by E.
         The test session of π is the session of π with SID s.
      2. A may write only to the backdoor tapes of existing ITIs. In particular, A’s external-write
         requests must have the forced-write flag unset.
      3. external-write operations by ITIs other than E and A must always include the sender extended
         identity in the outgoing message, namely the “reveal-sender-id” flag must be set.
         These ITIs are allowed to write to the backdoor tape of A. (Here the forced-write flag must
         be unset, the recipient code must not be specified, and the import must be 0.)
         In addition, these ITIs may pass inputs and outputs to any ITI other than A and E, with
         the following modification: If the writing ITI is a main ITI of the test session of π, the target
         tape is the subroutine-output tape, and the target ITI does not exist in the system, then the
         message is written to the subroutine-output tape of E. Here E receives the sender identity,
         but not the sender code.

                     Figure 6: A summary of the model for protocol execution



The model. Given ITMs π, E, A, the model consists of the extended, parameterized system of
            π,A
ITMs (E, Cexec  ), where the initial ITM of the system is the environment E, the input z to E
represents some initial state of the actual environment in which the protocol execution takes place,
                            π,A
and the control function Cexec    is defined below and summarized in Figure 6.

The effect of external-writes made by E. The environment E may pass inputs (and only in-
    puts) to ITIs of its choice, as long as all of these ITIs have the same SID. The control function
    sets the code of all these ITIs to π. E can also specify the extended identity of the writing
    ITI to values other than its own. The adversary is identified by having PID . That is, if the
    PID of the target ITI is  then the code of the target ITI is set by the control function to be
    A.
     More precisely, an external-write operation (f, M 0 , t, r, M, m) by E, where f ∈ {0, 1} is the
     forced-write flag, M 0 is an extended identity of a “target ITI”, t is the tape name, r is the


                                                     40
       reveal-sender-id flag, M is an extended identity of a “source ITI”, and m is the message, is
       handled as follows.
       If t is not the input tape or f = 0, or the SID of M 0 is different than the SID of any other M 0
       that appeared in an external-write operation of E in the execution so far, then the operation
       is rejected.
       Else, if the PID of M 0 is , then m is written to the input tape of the ITI whose identity is
       that of M 0 and whose code is A. (As usual, if no such ITI exists then one is invoked.)
       Else m is written to the input tape of the ITI whose identity is that of M 0 and whose code is
       π. In that case, if r = 0 then no sender identity appears on the recipient input tape. If r = 1
       then M appears on the input tape of the recipient as the source extended identity.
       The session identifier of the ITIs written to by E is called the test SID. The test session of π
       is the set of all ITIs whose code is π and whose SID is the test SID.
The effect of external-writes made by A. The control function allows the adversary A (i.e.,
    the ITI with PID ) to write only to the backdoor tapes of ITIs. In addition, it can only write
    to tapes of existing ITIs; that is, A’s external-write requests must have the forced-write flag
    unset.
The effect of external-writes made by other ITIs. external-write operations by ITIs other
    than E and A must always include the sender extended identity in the outgoing message -
    namely the “reveal-sender-id” flag must be set.
       These ITIs are allowed to write to the backdoor tape of A. Here the forced-write flag must
       be unset, and the recipient code must not be specified. (This way the message is deliv-
       ered regardless of the code of the adversary.) Furthermore, these messages cannot have any
       import.11
       In addition, ITIs other than E and A may pass inputs and outputs to any ITI other than A
       and E, with the following modification: If the writing ITI is a main party of the test session
       of π, the target tape is the subroutine-output tape, and the target ITI does not exist in the
       system, then the value is written on the subroutine-output tape of E, along with the target
       extended identity and sender identity (but not the sender code).
                    def
Let execπ,A,E (z) = outE,C π,A (z).
                                exec

Observe that the set of ITIs invoked in an execution of protocol π, other than E and A, consist
of a single extended session of π. Jumping ahead, we note that this makes the model of protocol
execution a bit of an over-simplification of a general execution environment. We discuss the gap
and bridge it in Section 5.2, via the notion of subroutine-respecting protocols.

4.2    UC-emulation
This section formalizes the general notion of one protocol emulating another protocol, extending
the definition of Section 2.2 to the present model. We start by setting language for expressing more
nuanced variants of the concept of an environment machine. Specifically, we formulate the notions
of identity-bounded environments and balanced environments.
  11
    Allowing only the environment to transfer import to the adversary serves to simplify the modeling and analysis
of security. It also simplifies the proofs of structural results about the model such as Lemma 11 and Theorem 22.
Crucially, these restrictions do not appear to affect the expressive power of the model.


                                                       41
External identities and identity-bounded environments Recall that the model of protocol
execution lets the environment determine the extended identity of the source of any input it sends
to a main party of the protocol. We call these extended identities, determined by the environment,
external identities. Allowing the environment to use external identities is indeed essential for the
meaningfulness of the model, in that it allows representing situations where the main parties of
the protocol session under consideration receive input from entities that are external to the pro-
tocol. Furthermore, requiring the protocol to consider such environments will be crucial for the
composition theorem to hold. Still, it will be convenient to consider also restricted environments
that can use only external identities of some form. Specifically, for a set ξ of identities, an environ-
ment is ξ-identity-bounded if it uses only external identities in ξ. More generally, the set of allowed
identities can be determined dynamically depending on the execution so far. That is, ξ can be
a (PT) predicate that takes as input an entire configuration of the system at the moment where
the environment provides input to a protocol party, and determines whether to accept the source
identity assumed by the environment.12

Balanced environments. In order to keep the notion of protocol emulation from being unneces-
sarily restrictive, we restrict attention to environments that satisfy some basic conditions regarding
the relative imports given to the protocol ITIs and the adversary. Recall that we have already
restricted ourselves to parameterized systems where the import given to each ITI must be at least
the security parameter. Furthermore, the definition of protocol emulation concentrates on the case
where the import of the input to the environment is polynomial in the security parameter.
     However, these restrictions do not limit the relative imports of the inputs that the environment
provides to the adversary and to the other ITIs; the difference can be any arbitrary polynomial in the
security parameter.Consequently, the model still allows the environment to create situations where
the computational resources of the protocol, hence the protocol’s cmoputational and communication
complexity, are arbitrarily large relative to the computational resources available to the adversary.
Such situations seem unnatural; for instance, with such an environment no polytime adversary will
be able to read even a fraction of the protocol’s communication. Indeed, if we allow such situations
then the definition of UC-emulation (Definition 9 below) would become overly restrictive.13
     To avoid such situations, we restrict attention to environments where the amount of resources
given to the adversary (namely, the overall import of the inputs that the adversary receives) is
comparable to the amount of resources given to the other ITIs in the system. Specifically, we say
that an environment is balanced if, at any point in time during the execution, the overall import of
the inputs given to the adversary is at least the sum of the imports of all the other inputs given to
all the other ITIs in the system so far. That is, if at a certain point in an execution the environment
provided import n1 , ..., nk to k ITIs overall, then the overall import of the inputs to the adversary
  12
      Jumping ahead, we note that the more restricted the predicate ξ, the easier it will be to prove that π emulates φ
(for some given protocols π, φ), and the harder it will be to use this fact later on - specifically in the context of the
composition theorem. Indeed, the decision of which extended identities to designate as external ones can be viewed
as part of the protocol design process. See more discussion following the definition of compliant protocols in Section 6.
   13
       Indeed, in such a case the adversary may not even be able to run the prescribed protocol. To exemplify this point
further, for any protocol π let π̃ be identical to π except that π 0 instructs the party to first send to the adversary an
initial random message of length proportional to the partys import, and expects the adversary to echo the message
back to it before continuing (the message carries no import). Then π does not UC-emulate π̃ according to Definition 9:
Let A be the linear-time adversary that delivers all protocol messages until it hits its run-time bound and halts. Now,
to mimic the behavior of A, the simulator S needs to have additional run-time to handle the additional message. But
for any polytime S there would exist an environment that gives the ITIs running π̃ more import than the run-time
of S.



                                                           42
is at least n1 + ... + nk . It is stressed that the import given to the adversary can still be arbitrarily
(but polynomially) large relative to the overall imports given by the environment to the protocol
parties (ITIs).

Distribution ensembles and indistinguishability. Towards the formal definition, we recall
the definitions of distribution ensembles and indistinguishability. A probability distribution ensemble
X = {X(k, z)}k∈N,x∈{0,1}∗ is an infinite set of probability distributions, where a distribution X(k, z)
is associated with each k ∈ N and z ∈ {0, 1}∗ . The ensembles considered in this work describe
outputs of computations where the parameter z represents input, and the parameter k represents
the security parameter. As we will see, it will suffice to restrict attention to binary distributions,
i.e. distributions over {0, 1}.

Definition 8 Two binary probability distribution ensembles X and Y are indistinguishable (written
X ≈ Y ) if for any c, d ∈ N there exists k0 ∈ N such that for all k > k0 and all z ∈ ∪κ≤kd {0, 1}κ
we have:
                           | Pr(X(k, z) = 1) − Pr(Y (k, z) = 1)| < k −c .

    The probability distribution ensembles considered in this work represent outputs of systems
of ITMs, namely outputs of environments. More precisely, we consider ensembles of the form
           def
execπ,A,E = {execπ,A,E (k, z)}k∈N,z∈{0,1}∗ . It is stressed that Definition 8 considers the distribu-
tions X(k, z) and Y (k, z) only when the import of z is polynomial in k. This essentially means that
we consider only situations where the initial input to the environment is some polynomial function
of the security parameter. We are finally ready to formally define UC protocol emulation:

Definition 9 Let π and φ be PPT protocols, and let ξ be a predicate on extended identities. We
say that π UC-emulates φ with respect to ξ-identity-bounded environments (or, π ξ-UC-emulates φ)
if for any PPT adversary A there exists a PPT adversary S such that for any balanced, PPT,
ξ-identity-bounded environment E we have:

                                       execφ,S,E ≈ execπ,A,E .

If π ξ-UC-emulates φ with ξ = {0, 1}∗ then we simply say that π UC-emulates φ.

We refer the reader to Section 2.2 for discussion and interpretations of this definition.

4.3   Alternative formulations of UC-emulation
We present some alternative formulations of UC-emulation (Definition 9).

Environments with non-binary outputs. Definition 9 quantifies only over environments that
generate binary outputs. One may consider an extension to the model where the environment
has arbitrary output; here the definition of security would require that the two output ensembles
execπ,A,E and execφ,S,E (that would no longer be binary) be computationally indistinguishable, as
defined by Yao [y82] (see also [g01]). It is easy to see, however, that this extra generality results
in a definition that is equivalent to Definition 9. We leave the proof as an exercise.




                                                   43
Deterministic environments. Since we consider environments that receive an arbitrary exter-
nal input of polynomial length, it suffices to consider only deterministic environments. That is,
the definition that quantifies only over deterministic environments is equivalent to Definition 9.
Again, we omit the proof. Note however that this equivalence does not hold for the case of closed
environments, where the environment has no input other than import value.

4.3.1   Emulation with respect to the dummy adversary

We show that Definition 9 can be simplified as follows. Instead of quantifying over all possible
adversaries A, it suffices to require that the ideal-protocol adversary S be able to simulate, for
any environment E, the behavior of a specific and very simple adversary. This adversary, called
the “dummy adversary”, only delivers backdoor messages generated by the environment to the
specified recipients, and delivers to the environment all backdoor messages generated by the protocol
parties. Said otherwise, we essentially show that the dummy adversary is “the hardest adversary to
simulate”, in the sense that simulating this adversary implies simulating all adversaries. Intuitively,
the reason that the dummy adversary is the “hardest to simulate” is that it gives the environment
full control over the communication with the protocol. It thus leaves the simulator with very little
wiggle room.
    More specifically, the dummy adversary, denoted D, proceeds as follows. When activated with
an input (i, (m, id, c, i0 )) from E, where i is the import of the input, m is a message to be delivered,
id is an identity, c is a code for an ITI, and i0 is the import to be given out, D writes (i0 , m) on the
backdoor tape of the ITI with identity id and code c, subject to the run-time limitations described
below. When activated with a message m on its backdoor tape, adversary D passes m as output
to E, along with the extended identity of the sender. (Recall that these messages carry no import.)
    To make sure that D is polynomially bounded, we add the following mechanism. D keeps a
variable ν which holds the total import received so far from E, minus the import given out on the
backdoor tape, minus the total lengths of all inputs and all incoming messages on the backdoor
tape. If at any activation the variable ν holds a value that is smaller than the security parameter
k then D ends this activation without sending any message. With this mechanism in place, D can
be implemented in linear time. (Note that the target identity id in an input message might be
the environment itself, in which case the message is written back to the environment - albeit with
no import. These messages can be used by the the environment to provide the adversary with
additional import, without having it deliver any message.)

Definition 10 Let π and φ be PPT protocols and let ξ be a predicate on extended identities.
We say that π ξ-UC-emulates protocol φ with respect to the dummy adversary if there exists a
PPT adversary S such that for any balanced, PPT, ξ-identity-bounded environment E we have
execφ,S,E ≈ execπ,D,E .

   We show:

Claim 11 Let π, φ be PPT protocols, and let ξ be a predicate on extended identities. Then π ξ-
UC-emulates φ (as in Definition 9) if and only if π ξ-UC-emulates φ with respect to the dummy
adversary.

Discussion. From a technical point of view, emulation with respect to the dummy adversary is an
easier definition to work with, since it involves one less quantifier, and furthermore it restricts the


                                                   44
interface of the environment with the adversary to be very simple. Indeed, we almost always prefer
to work with this notion. However, we chose not to present this formulation as the main notion
of protocol emulation, since we feel it is somewhat less intuitively appealing than Definition 9. In
other words, we find it harder to get convinced that emulation with respect to the dummy adversary
captures the security requirements of a given task. In particular, it looks farther away from the the
basic notion of security in, say, [c00]. Also, it is less obvious that this definition has some basic
closure properties such as transitivity (see Claim 18).
    At the same time, UC-emulation with respect to the dummy adversary might make it easier to
see that UC security is a natural relaxation of the notion of observational equivalence of processes
(see, e.g., [m89]). Indeed, observational equivalence essentially fixes the entire system that interacts
with either π or φ, whereas UC-emulation with respect to the dummy adversary allows the analyst to
insert a simulator that translates between the adversarial interface provided by φ and the adversarial
interface provided by π, so as to make sure that the rest of the external system cannot distinguish
between π and φ.
Proof: Fix some predicate ξ on extended identities. For the rest of the proof we consider and
construct only ξ-identity-bounded environments. Clearly, if π ξ-UC-emulates φ as in Definition 9
then π ξ-UC-emulates φ with respect to the dummy adversary. The idea of the implication in the
other direction is that, given direct access to the communication sent and received by the parties,
the environment can run any adversary by itself. Thus quantifying over all environments essentially
implies quantification also over all adversaries. More precisely, let π, φ be protocols and let SD be
the adversary guaranteed by the definition of emulation with respect to dummy adversaries. (That
is, SD satisfies execφ,SD ,E ≈ execπ,D,E for all balanced PPT E.) We show that π UC-emulates φ
according to Definition 9. For this purpose, given an adversary A, we construct an adversary S and
show that execφ,S,E ≈ execπ,A,E for all balanced PPT E. Adversary S runs simulated instances
of A and SD . Then:

   1. When S obtains input x with import n from E, it operates as follows:

       (a) S locally activates A with input x and import n, and runs A till it completes its activa-
           tion. (Note that S does not really “give away run-time tokens” here, since A is simulated
           within S.)
       (b) Next S activates SD with input (i, (m, id, c, i0 )), where m is the outgoing message that
           A generated in this activation, id, c are the identity and code of the target ITI of this
           message, and i0 is the import of this message. (Recall that this message can be either
           an output to the environment, or a backdoor message to some other ITI. If A did not
           generate a message in this activation then S sets (m, id, c, i0 ) = (, 0, 0, 0), i.e., S inputs
           to SD an instruction to send an empty output to the environment.) The import i of this
           input to SD is set as i = pπ,φ (n̂) − pπ,φ (n̂ − n), where pπ,φ (·) is the maximum between
           the polynomials bounding protocols π and φ, and n̂ is the overall import in the inputs
           received by S in the execution so far. (Observe that this way, the overall import received
           by SD at any point is pπ,φ (n̂), which we assume to be at least n̂. This fact will be later
           used to argue the validity of S.)14
           Next S follows the instructions for SD . In particular, if SD instructs to write some
           message to some tape of some ITI then S writes that message to that tape of that ITI.
  14
    We thank Andrew Miller for pointing out the need to activate SD even when A generates an output to the
environment or no message at all, in order to make sure that the environment ED constructed later on remains
balanced. This step was indeed missing in previous versions.


                                                    45
   2. When S obtains a message on its backdoor tape, it operates as follows:
       (a) S activates SD with the incoming message on the backdoor tape, and runs SD until SD
           completes its activation.
       (b) If in this activation, SD generates a message to be written to the backdoor tape of an
           ITI other than E, then S writes that message to the backdoor tape of that ITI.
       (c) If the message s generated by SD is directed at E, then S parses s = (m, id, c) and
           activates A with message m from ITI id with code c (written on A’s backdoor tape). If
           the output of SD carries any import then S halts. (This last instruction guarantees that
           S remains PPT even when SD is faulty.)
       (d) Next S runs A: If in this activation A generates an outgoing message to E, then S
           generates this message to E. If the message generated by A is aimed at another ITI,
           then S activates SD with input (0, (m, id, c, i)), where m is the message generated by A,
           i0 is the import of this message, and (id, c) are the identity and code of the recipient ITI.
           The input to SD does not contain any import. S then follows the instructions of SD for
           generating an outgoing message.

A graphical depiction of the operation of S appears in Figure 7.




                                                         E




                              S
                                  A              𝜙1          …          𝜙𝑚

                                                 …                      …
                                  SD



Figure 7: The operation of simulator S in the proof of Claim 11. Both A and SD are simulated internally
by S. The same structure represents also the operation of the shell adversary in the definition of black-box
simulation (see Section 4.3.2).




Analysis of S. We first argue that S is PPT. The running time of S is dominated by the run-time
of the A module plus the run-time of the SD module (with some simulation overhead). Consider a
state of S: Let n̂ be the overall import of the inputs received so far by S, and recall that A and
S receive no import on their backdoor tapes. This means that the overall running time of the A
module is at most pA (n̂), where pA is the polynomial bounding the run-time of A. The overall
import of inputs received by the SD module within S is pπ,φ (n̂). It follows that the run-time of SD
is bounded by:

                                       pS (·) = pA (·) + O(pSD (pπ,φ (·))),                             (1)

                                                       46
where pSD denotes the polynomial bounding the run-time of SD . We note that this fact is used
also in the proof of Claim 17 below.15
     Next we assert the validity of S. Assume for contradiction that there is an adversary A
and a balanced, ξ-identity-bounded environment E such that execφ,S,E 6≈ execπ,A,E . We con-
struct a balanced, ξ-identity-bounded environment ED such that execπ,D,ED = execπ,A,E , and
execφ,SD ,ED = execφ,S,E . This will mean that execφ,SD ,ED 6≈ execπ,D,ED , in contradiction to the
premise that π ξ-UC-emulates φ with respect to the dummy adversary.
     Environment ED internally runs an interaction between simulated instances of E and A. That
is, in the first activation on some initial input z, ED activates E on input z. Next:

   1. If E halts with some output then ED halts with the same output. When E generates an input
      x with import n to some ITI (id, c), where id is the identity of the ITI and c is the code of
      the ITI, then:

       (a) If the target ITI is other than the adversary, then ED sends input x to ITI (id, c).
       (b) If the target ITI is the adversary, then ED activates A with input x and import n, and
           runs A until it completes its activation.
           Next ED provides an input to the external adversary, that mimics the input that SD
           receives when run within S. That is, ED provides to the external adversary input
           (i, (m, id, c, i0 )), where m is the outgoing message that A generated in this activation, id, c
           are the identity and code of the target ITI of this message, and i0 is the import of this mes-
           sage. The import i of the input to the external adversary is set as i = pπ,φ (n̂)−pπ,φ (n̂−n),
           where pπ,φ (·) is the maximum between the polynomials bounding protocols π and φ, n
           is the import of the input received by A in this activation, and n̂ is the overall import
           of the inputs received by A in the execution so far.
           It is stressed that ED activates the external adversary even if the target of this message
           is the environment. Also, if A did not generate a message in this activation then ED
           sets (m, id, c, i0 ) = (, 0, 0, 0), i.e., ED instructs the external adversary to send an empty
           output back to the environment.
           Next, if id = 0, i.e. the target identity of the message in the input to the external
           adversary is the environment, then ED enters a special bypass state.

   2. When ED obtains, on its subroutine-output tape, a subroutine output value v from the external
      adversary, it operates as follows:

       (a) If ED is in the bypass state, then it exits the bypass state, activates E with subroutine
           output v from A, and proceeds as in Step 1. (Here ED by passes A to deliver the output
           directly to E, similarly to the behavior of S.
       (b) Else, ED parses v = (m, id, c), activates A with incoming message m from ITI id with
           code c, and runs A till A completes its activation. If in this activation A generates
           an outgoing message to its environment, then ED activates E with subroutine output v
           from A. If A did not generate a message in this activation then ED activates E with no
           subroutine output. Either way, ED then proceeds as in Step 1.
  15
    In order to obtain truly additive overhead one needs, of course, to work in a computational model where one
machine can simulate another with only additive overhead. One such model is a multi-tape Turing machine, where
the simulating machine has more tapes than the simulated one. The plain RAM model is another example.



                                                      47
           If the message generated by A is aimed at another ITI, then ED activates its external
           adversary with input (0, (m, id, c, i0 )) where m is the message, i0 is the import of the
           message and id, c are the identity and code of the recipient ITI. The import of this input
           is 0.

  3. When ED obtains a subroutine output value v from an ITI (id, c) other than the adversary,
     it activates E with subroutine output v from (id, c), and proceeds as in Step 1.

    Clearly, if E is ξ-identity-bounded then so is ED . Next we argue that ED is balanced. This is
so since E is balanced, and at any point in time during the execution of ED , the import that ED
gives to each ITI other than the adversary is at most the import that E gives this ITI. The overall
import that ED gives its external adversary is at least pπ,φ (n̂), where n̂ is the overall import that E
has given its own external adversary (namely, A) so far. Assuming that pπ,φ (n̂) ≥ n̂, we have that
ED is balanced.
    It can also be verified that ensembles execπ,D,ED and execπ,A,E are identically distributed.
(Here it is instructive to note that D never stops due to insufficient run-time.)
    Similarly, execφ,SD ,ED and execφ,S,E are identically distributed. In particular, the view of SD
in the left experiment is distributed identically to the view of the SD module within S in the right
experiment.                                                                                           

4.3.2   Emulation with respect to black-box simulation

Another alternative formulation of Definition 9 imposes the following technical restriction on the
simulator S: Instead of allowing a different simulator for any adversary A, let the simulator have
“black-box access” to A, and require that the code of the simulator remains the same for all A.
Restricting the simulator in this manner does not seem to capture any tangible security concern;
still, in other contexts, e.g. in the classic notion of Zero-Knowledge, this requirement results in a
strictly more restrictive notion of security than the definition that lets S depend on the description
of A, see e.g. [gk88, b01]. We show that in the UC framework security via black-box simulation
is equivalent to the standard notion of security.
     We formulate black-box emulation in a way that keeps the overall model of protocol execution
unchanged, and only imposes restrictions on the operation of the simulator. Specifically, say that an
adversary is composite if it consists of a main program or ITM and a subroutine, whose program is
another ITM. Upon activation of a composite adversary, the main program is activated. The main
program invokes and activates the subroutine at will and obtains the outputs of the subroutine,
but does not have access to the program or internal state of the subroutine. Furthermore the
subroutine does not have access to the outgoing message tape of the overall composite ITM. A
black-box simulator S is the main program of a composite adversary. We let S A denote the composite
adversary that consists of the main program S with subroutine ITM A. Black-box simulator S is
PPT with bounding polynomial ps (·) if, for any PPT A, the number of computational steps taken
by the main program of S A is bounded by ps (n − n0 ), where n is the overall import received by S A
on its input tape, and n0 is the overall import that S provides to A.

Definition 12 Let ξ be a predicate on extended identities. Say that protocol π ξ-UC-emulates pro-
tocol φ with black-box simulation if there exists a PPT black-box adversary S such that for any PPT
adversary A, and any balanced, PPT, ξ-identity-bounded environment E, we have execφ,S A ,E ≈
execπ,A,E .


                                                  48
We observe that UC-emulation with black-box simulation is equivalent to plain UC-emulation:

Claim 13 Let π, φ be PPT multiparty protocols, and let ξ be a predicate on extended identities.
Then π ξ-UC-emulates φ as in Definition 9 if and only if π ξ-UC-emulates φ with black-box simu-
lation.

Proof: The ‘only if’ direction follows from the definition. For the ‘if’ direction, observe that
simulator S in the proof of Claim 11 is in fact a black-box simulator, where the shell consists of
the main program of S together with SD . See Figure 7.                                          

Discussion. The present formulation of security via black-box simulation is considerably more
restrictive than that of standard cryptographic modeling of black-box simulation. In particular, in
the standard modeling the black-box simulator controls also the random tape of A and can thus
effectively “rewind” and “reset” A to arbitrary previous states in its execution. In contrast, here
the communication between S and A is restricted to obtaining outputs of complete executions
with potentially hidden randomness. Still, the present definition is equivalent to the plain (non
black-box) notion of security.
    We remark that the present formulation of black-box simulation is reminiscent of the notions
of strong black-box simulation in [dkmr05] and in [pw00]. However, in these works black-box
simulation is not equivalent to the basic definition, due to different formalizations of probabilistic
polynomial time.

4.3.3   Letting the simulator depend on the environment

Consider a variant of Definition 9, where the simulator S can depend on the code of the environment
E. That is, for any A and E there should exist a simulator S that satisfies execφ,S,E ≈ execπ,A,E .
Following [l03], we call this variant emulation with respect to specialized simulators. As argued in
[l03], emulation with respect to specialized simulators does not directly provide the guarantees
promised by UC security. Indeed, jumping ahead, we note that the proof of the UC theorem
crucially uses the fact that the same simulator works for all environments. However it turns
out that, in the present framework, emulation with respect to specialized simulators is actually
equivalent to full-fledged UC security:

Claim 14 A protocol π ξ-UC-emulates protocol φ as in Definition 9 if and only if π ξ-UC-emulates
φ with respect to specialized simulators.

Proof: Clearly, if π UC-emulates φ as in Definition 9 then UC-emulates φ with respect to specialized
simulators. To show the other direction, assume that π UC-emulates φ with respect to specialized
simulators. That is, for any PPT adversary A and PPT environment E there exists a PPT simulator
S such that execφ,S,E ≈ execπ,A,E . Consider the “universal environment” Eu which expects its
input to consist of (hEi, z, t), where hEi is an encoding of an ITM E, z is an input to E, and t
is a bound on the running time of E. (t is also the import of the input.) Then, Eu runs E on
input z for up to t steps, outputs whatever E outputs, and halts. Clearly, machine Eu is PPT.
(In fact, it runs in linear time in its input length.) We are thus guaranteed that there exists a
simulator S such that execφ,S,Eu ≈ execπ,A,Eu . We claim that execφ,S,E ≈ execπ,A,E for any
balanced PPT environment E. To see this, fix a PPT machine E as in Definition 6, and let c be the
constant exponent that bounds E’s running time. For each k ∈ N and z ∈ {0, 1}∗ , the distribution
execφ,S,E (k, z) is identical to the distribution execφ,S,Eu (k, zu ), where zu = (hEi, z, |z|c ). Similarly,

                                                     49
the distribution execπ,A,E (k, z) is identical to the distribution execπ,A,Eu (k, zu ). Consequently, for
any d ∈ N we have:
         {execφ,S,E (k, z)}k∈N,z∈{0,1}≤kd   = {execφ,S,Eu (k, zu )}k∈N,zu =(hEi,z∈{0,1}≤kd ,|z|c )
                                            ≈ {execπ,A,Eu (k, zu )}k∈N,zu =(hEi,z∈{0,1}≤kd ,|z|c )
                                            = {execπ,A,E (k, z)}k∈N,z∈{0,1}≤kd .

In particular, as long as |z| is polynomial in k, we have that |zu | is also polynomial in k (albeit
with a different polynomial). Consequently, execφ,S,E ≈ execπ,A,E . (Notice that if |zu | were not
polynomial in k then the last derivation would not hold.)                                         

 Remark: Claim 14 is an extension of the equivalence argument for the case of computationally
unbounded environment and adversaries, discussed in [c00]. A crucial element in the proof of
this claim is the fact that the class of allowed environments permits existence of an environment
Eu that is universal with respect to all allowed environments. In the context of computationally
bounded environments, this feature becomes possible when using a definition of PPT ITMs where
the running time may depend not only on the security parameter, but also on the input. Indeed,
there are several definitional frameworks in the literature (including[c00] and the basic model of
Section 2) which restrict ITMs to run in time that is bound by a fixed polynomial in the security
parameter. In these framework standard security and security with respect to specialized simulators
end up being different notions (see, e.g., [l03, hu05]).

4.4   Some Variants of UC-emulation
Next we present some variants of the basic notion of UC-emulation, specifically statistical emulation,
emulation with respect to closed environments, and two other, more quantitative notions of UC-
emulation. We then make note additional observations.

 On statistical and perfect emulation. Definition 9 can be extended to the standard notions of
statistical and perfect emulation (as in, say, [c00]). That is, when A and E are allowed unbounded
complexity, and the simulator S is allowed to be polynomial in the complexity of A, we say that π
statistically UC-emulates φ. If in addition execφ,S,E and execπ,A,E are required to be identical then
we say that π perfectly UC-emulates φ. Another variant allows S to have unlimited computational
power, regardless of the complexity of A; however, this variant provides a weaker security guarantee,
as discussed in [c00].

 On security with respect to closed environments. Definition 9 considers environments
that take input (of some polynomial length) that was generated in an arbitrary way, perhaps not
even recursively. This input represents some initial joint state of the system and the adversary.
Alternatively, one may choose to consider only “closed environments”, namely environment that
do not receive meaningful external input. Here the notion of security considers only environments
whose external input contains no information other than import. Such environments would choose
the inputs of the protocol parties using some internal stochastic process. We note that Claim 14
does not hold for closed environments. Indeed, jumping ahead, it can be seen that: (a) The UC
theorem does not hold with respect to closed environments and specialized simulators. (b) As long
as there is a single simulator that works for all environments, the UC theorem holds even with
respect to closed environments.

                                                   50
 More quantitative notions of emulation. The notion of protocol emulation as defined above
only provides a “qualitative” measure of security. That is, it essentially only gives the guarantee
that “any feasible attack against π can be turned into a feasible attack against φ,” where “feasible”
is interpreted broadly as “polynomial time”. We formulate more quantitative variants of this
definition.
    We quantify two parameters: the emulation slack, meaning the probability by which the environ-
ment distinguishes between the interaction with π from the interaction with φ, and the simulation
overhead, meaning the difference between the complexity of the given adversary A and that of the
constructed adversary S. Recall that an ITM is T -bounded if the function bounding its running
time is T (·) (see Definition 6), and that a functional is a function from functions to functions. Then:

Definition 15 Let π and φ be protocols, let ξ be a predicate on extended identities, and let , g
be functionals. We say that π ξ-UC-emulates φ with emulation slack  and simulation overhead g
(or, in short, π (, g, ξ)-UC-emulates φ), if for any polynomial pA (·) and any pA -bounded adversary
A, there exists a g(pA )-bounded adversary S, such that for any polynomial pE , any pE -bounded,
ξ-identity-bounded environment E, any large enough value k ∈ N and any input x ∈ {0, 1}pE (k) we
have:
                            |execφ,S,E (k, x) − execπ,A,E (k, x)| < pA ,pE (k).

   Including the security parameter k is necessary when the protocol depends on it. Naturally,
when k is understood from the context it can be omitted. A more concrete variant of Definition
15 abandons the asymptotic framework and instead concentrates on a specific value of the security
parameter k:

Definition 16 Let π and φ be protocols, let k ∈ N, let g,  : N → N, and let ξ be a predicate on
extended identities. We say that π (k, e, g, ξ)-UC-emulates φ if for any tA ∈ N and any adversary
A that runs in time tA there exists an adversary S that runs in time g(tA ) such that for any tE ∈ N,
any ξ-identity-bounded environment E that runs in time tE , and any input x ∈ {0, 1}tE we have:

                          |execφ,S,E (k, x) − execπ,A,E (k, x)| < (k, tA , tE ).

    It is stressed that Definition 16 still quantifies over all PPT environments and adversaries of all
polynomial complexities. One can potentially formulate a definition that parameterizes also the run-
times of the environment, adversary and simulator. That is, this weaker definition would quantify
only over environments and adversaries that have specific complexity. It should be noted, however,
that such a definition would be considerably weaker than Definition 16, since it guarantees security
only for adversaries and environments that are bounded by specific run-times. Furthermore, both
the protocols and the simulator can depend on these run-times. In contrast, Definition 16 bounds
the specified parameters for any arbitrarily complex environment and adversary.
    Indeed, with such a fully parametric definition, the universal composition theorem, the dummy-
adversary and black-box-simulation theorems would need to account for the appropriate quantita-
tive degradation in the simulation overhead and the emulation slack.

The simulation overhead is always additive. An interesting property of the notion of UC-
emulation is that the simulation overhead can be always bounded by an additive polynomial factor
that depends only on the protocols in question, and is independent of the adversary. That is:



                                                    51
Claim 17 Let π and φ be protocols and let ξ be a predicate such that π (, g, ξ)-UC-emulates φ
as in Definition 15. Then there exists a polynomial α such that π (, g 0 , ξ)-UC-emulates φ, where
g 0 (pA )(·) = pA (·) + α(·).

   Said otherwise, if π (, g, ξ)-UC-emulates φ then it is guaranteed that the overhead of running
S rather than A can be made to be at most an additive polynomial factor α(·) that depends only
on π and φ. Furthermore, this can be done with no increase in the emulation slack or changing the
predicate ξ. We call α(·) the intrinsic simulation overhead of π with respect to φ.

Proof. The claim follows from the proof of Claim 11. Indeed, the proof of Claim 11 shows how
to construct, for any adversary A, a valid simulator whose complexity is bounded by pA (n) +
α(n), where pA is the polynomial bounding the running time of A and α(·) is polynomial in the
complexities of π and φ (see Equation (1)). 

4.5    UC-emulation is transitive
The following observation is straightforward:

Claim 18 Let π1 , π2 , π3 be protocols and let ξ1 , ξ2 be predicates. Then, if π1 ξ1 -UC-emulates π2 ,
and π2 ξ2 -UC-emulates protocol π3 , then π1 ξ3 -UC-emulates π3 , where ξ3 = ξ1 ∪ ξ2 .

Moreover, if π1 (e1 , g1 , ξ1 )-UC-emulates π2 , and π2 (e2 , g2 , ξ2 )-UC-emulates π3 , then π1 (e1 + e2 , g2 ◦
g1 , ξ1 ∪ ξ2 )-UC-emulates π3 . (Here e1 + e2 is the functional that output the sum of the outputs
of e1 and e2 , and ◦ denotes composition of functionals.) Transitivity for any number of protocols
π1 , ..., πn follows in the same way. Note that if the number of protocols is not bounded by a constant
then the complexity of the adversary may no longer be bounded by a polynomial. Still, when there
is an overall polynomial bound on the intrinsic simulation overheads of each πi w.r.t. πi+1 , Claim
17 implies that the simulation overhead remains polynomial as long as the number of protocols is
polynomial. Similarly the emulation slack remains negligible as long as the number of protocols is
polynomial.
     We stress that transitivity of UC-emulation should not be confused with the case of UC-
emulation for multiple nested protocols, which has to do with repeated applications of the UC
theorem and is discussed in Section 6.3.


5     Defining security of protocols
We now turn to applying the general machinery of UC-emulation, developed in Section 4, to-
wards one of the main goals of this work, namely defining security of protocols via realizing ideal
functionalities.
    We first formulate an additional, more structural class of protocols, called subroutine respecting
protocols. Essentially, these are protocols where only the main ITIs of each session take inputs
from, and generate subroutine-output to, ITIs which are not members of the extended session.
To facilitate presenting this additional requirement, we formulate a general mechanism for making
structural requirements from protocols. This mechanism, which we dub the shell mechanism, will
be used extensively throughout the rest of this paper: We will use it to capture a variety of real-life
situations and security concerns within the minimalistic formal framework of Sections 3 and 4.



                                                      52
    Section 5.1 presents the shell mechanism. Section 5.2 presents subroutine respecting protocols.
Section 5.3 defines ideal functionalities and ideal protocols for carrying out a given functionality,
followed by the definition of securely realizing an ideal functionality.

5.1    Structured protocols
We present a mechanism for fine-tuning the basic model of protocol execution so as to capture
realistic attacks and security concerns in a more nimble way. The idea is simple: Instead of directly
analyzing the security of the given protocol π, we will consider a protocol π 0 that “augments”
π in some prescribed way: Essentially, π 0 will run π “encapsulated” within some “wrapper”, or
“shell” code that monitors and sometimes modifies the communication between π and the outside.
Conceptually, the shell code will contain model-related instructions that are part of the “mental
experiment” of security analysis; The advantage in using this mechanism is that, while different
shells capture different actual settings, a structured protocol is always a legal protocol as per the
modeling of Section 4, hence all the structural results of that section apply. Indeed, we will use
this mechanism extensively: For instance, the code that sends messages on the backdoor tape
and responds to messages coming on that tape will typically be shell code (indeed, actual real-life
code does not typically include messages for communicating with the adversary). Also the shell
mechanism is what will allow us to capture, in Section 7.1, communication and party-corruption
within the basic model.
    More specifically, say that a protocol (or, ITM) is structured if it consists of two separate parts,
or “sub-processes”, called a body and a shell. It will be convenient to view the body and the shell
of a structured ITM µ as two separate ITMs, where the shell ITM has read and write access to the
tapes of the body, whereas the body does not have access to the tapes of the shell. The externally
writable tapes of µ are the externally writable tapes of the shell, and the outgoing message tape of
µ is the outgoing message tape of the shell. The externally writable and outgoing message tape of
the body become internal tapes of µ and are writable and readable by the shell, respectively. The
extended identity of µ represents the extended identity of the shell followed by that of the body.
(A natural layout would be (SIDb , SIDsh , P IDb , P IDsh , πb , πsh ), where SID, P ID, π denote the
SID, PID and program, and the subscripts b,sh denote shell and body, respectively. The shell can
read the full identity tape of µ, whereas the body can read only the parts pertaining the the body.
Neither the body nor the shell can modify any part of the identity tape.)
    An activation of µ starts by activating the shell, which may or may not activate the body.
(Activating the body is done by setting its activation bit to 1.) In case the body executes, it keeps
executing until it completes its activation, at which point the shell resumes executing. It is stressed
that only the shell may send outgoing messages or complete an activation of µ. (The shell may, but
is not required to, copy outgoing messages from the body’s outgoing message tape to the outgoing
message tape of µ.) The run-time of µ includes the run-time of both the shell and the body.16
    The definition of time bounded ITMs (Definition 6) applies also to structured ITMs. In par-
ticular, the import balance of a structured ITM is calculated with respect to the incoming and
outgoing communiation of the shell. (The import values of the messages received and sent by the
body are not counted towards the overall import balance of µ. In particular, the shell may set the
import values in incoming messages to the body to be different than the import values on its own
incoming messages.)
  16
     As in the definition of ITMs, we allow the shell to copy incoming messages from its own externally writable
tapes the those of the body in unit time. As discussed in Footnote 4, this added lenience is not necessary in the
RAM/PRAM models where the shell can instead “redirect” the body to read the message from its own tape.


                                                       53
    We henceforth assume that all protocols are structured. Furthermore, we allow the body of
a structured protocol to be structured in itself. That is, protocols might have multiple shells,
where each shell is unaware of the outer shells, and treats the inner shells as part of the body. In
fact, this will be the prevalent case later on, where “innermost” body often correspond to actual,
real-life code, and the shells represent “modeling code”, namely code that represents the security
experiment.

5.2   Subroutine respecting protocols
The model of protocol execution of Section 4.1 is a highly simplified rendering of an execution of a
single protocol session within a general execution environment where the protocol session is created
by, and runs alongside, other ITIs. In particular, this model does not allow for ITIs other than
E, A, and machines that are members of the extended test session of π. Furthermore, E is only
allowed to provide inputs to the main parties of the test session of π. This in particular means that
the sub-parties of the test session of π are never faced with a situation where they might obtain
subroutine-output from an ITI which is not already a member of this extended session. Similarly,
they are never faced with a situation where they might obtain input from an ITI which is not
already a member of this extended session. Furthermore, when providing input to another ITI,
members of the extended session of π do not face situations where the recipient ITI already exists
in the system but is not a member of the extended test session.
    In contrast, when executed as a component of a larger system where ITIs outside the extended
test session of π may coexist, such situations might indeed happen. Furthermore, this gap between
the formal model and the actual execution environment might lead to actual attacks that take
advantage of the fact that the actual execution environment does not provide the assumed absolute
separation between the extended session of the protocol and the rest of the system.
    We present a mechanism for bridging this gap between the “in vitro” model of protocol execution
and general execution environments. To allow capturing a variety of system designs, we bridge the
gap in two steps: First we define a set of “behavioral requirements” from protocols, formulated
in terms of restrictions on the pattern of message receipt and generation, and without making
specific how these requirements might be implemented. Protocols that satisfy these behavioral
requirements are called subroutine respecting. These behavioral guarantees will arguably suffice for
capturing our intuitive notion of security. In particular, it will suffice for the universal composition
theorem.
    Next, for sake of concreteness, we formulate a specific mechanism that implements these behav-
ioral requirements. This mechanism models “complete separation”, namely a system where all the
attempts at “extraneous” communication, either by the members of the extended protocol session
or by the other ITIs in the system, are intercepted and blocked. We leave the construction of
alternative mechanisms, that may provide other levels of separation, to future work.

Definition 19 Protocol π is subroutine respecting if each session s of π, occurring within an ex-
ecution of any protocol with any environment. satisfies the following four requirements, in any
execution of any protocol ρ with any adversary and environment, as per the definition of protocol
execution of Section 4.1. (It is stressed that these requirements must be satisfied even when ses-
sion s of π is a subroutine of ρ, and in particular when the execution involves ITIs which are not
members of the extended session s.)
  1. The sub-parties of session s reject all inputs passed from an ITI which is not already a main
     party or subsidiary of session s. (Recall that rejecting a message means that the recipient ITI

                                                  54
     returns to its state prior to receiving the message and ends the activation without sending any
     message; See Section 3.1.2.)

  2. The main parties and sub-parties of session s reject all incoming subroutine outputs passed
     from an ITI which is not already a main party or subsidiary of session s.

  3. No sub-party of session s passes subroutine output to an existing ITI that is not already a
     main party or sub-party of session s.

  4. No main party or sub-party of session s passes input to an existing ITI that is not already a
     main party or sub-party of session s.

Writing subroutine respecting protocols. We first observe that in the basic model of Sec-
tion 2 all protocols are automatically subroutine-respecting. Indeed, the above requirements are
already “baked into” the static communication structure there (embodied in the construct of com-
munication sets).
    More generally, as discussed above, the methods for guaranteeing that protocols remain subrou-
tine respecting naturally depend on the level of control over inter-process communication, or more
generally on the level of separation that is provided by the physical system under consideration.
For sake of concreteness we describe one such method. Here the formalism of structured protocols
become useful: We define a shell that represents a very protective architecture, where the main
ITIs of each session of the analyzed protocol operate within an isolated “sandbox” that enforces
suboutine-respectfullness, no matter what the body does. That is, only the main ITIs can receive
inputs from external ITIs, no input can be given to an existing external ITI, and no output can be
given by a sub-party of the session to an external ITI. (Less protective execution environments can
be captured by appropriately relaxing the guarantees provided by this shell.)
    More specifically, a complete sandbox shell for protocol π is a program σπ that proceeds as
follows:

  1. At first activation:

      (a) If the code of the body of the present (structured) ITI is π, and the SID of the shell is
          >, then set flag main-party.
      (b) Else, if the shell code and shell SID of the caller ITI are the same as the shell code
          and shell SID of the present ITI, and in addition the incoming message is an input (as
          opposed to subroutine-output), then set flag sub-party.
      (c) Else, halt and remain inactive in all subsequent activations.

     (Case (1a) indicates that the present ITI is a main party of the session of π to be protected.
     Case (1b) indicates that the caller ITI is a member of the extended session to be protected.)

  2. When receiving a message on an externally writable tape: If the message is an input, and the
     flag main-party is set, then the input is transferred directly to the body. If the sub-party
     flag is set then first verify that the shell of the sending ITI M 0 has the same code and SID as
     the present one. If so, then activate the body with the input message. Else, reject the input.
     Similarly, if the message is a subroutine-output from an ITI M 0 , then first verify that the
     shell code and SID of the sending ITI M 0 are the same as the present one. If so, then the
     shell activates the body with the subroutine-output. Else, it rejects the subroutine-output.

                                                55
      Incoming backdoor messages are forwarded to the body without change. (Presumably, these
      messages will be handled by an inner shell within the body.)

  3. When the body completes an activation with an outgoing message v to an ITI M 0 : If the
     outgoing message is a subroutine-output and the main-party flag is set, then send the mes-
     sage. Else, generate an instruction to provide subroutine-output v to ITI M 00 , where M 00 is
     the same as M 0 except that the code σ is added to the code of M 0 as a new shell, and the
     present shell SID is added to the SID of the recipient.
      Similarly, if v is an input message then generate an instruction to provide input v to an ITI
      M 00 , where M 00 is the same as M 0 except that a the code σ is added to the code of M 0 as a
      new shell, and the present shell SID is added to the SID of the recipient.

    It can be verified that the complete sandbox shell σπ makes sure that the overall structured
protocol (π, σπ ) is subroutine respecting, regardless of how the body behaves. Indeed, consider
a session of (π, σπ ), with SID (s, >) (i.e., SID s for the body and > for the shell). Then all the
ITIs in the extended session ((π, σπ ), (s, >)) have shell σπ . Furthermore, all the sub-parties of this
extended session have shell SID s. Observe that the shell σπ prevents sub-parties of the session
((π, σπ ), (s, >)) from sending outputs to new ITIs that are not already sub-parties of this session;
it also prevents members of the session from sending inputs to existing ITIs that are not already
members of session ((π, σπ ), (s, >)).

Thanks. Thanks to Christian Badertscher, Julia Hesse, Björn Tackmann and Vassilis Zikas for
pointing to inclarities and mistakes in previous formulations of subroutine respecting protocols and
for helping develop the current formalism.

5.3   Realizing ideal functionalities
As discussed in Section 2.2, security of protocols is defined by way of comparing the protocol
execution to an ideal process for carrying out the task at hand, where the ideal process takes the
form of running a special protocol called the ideal protocol for the task. Recall that the ideal protocol
consists of an ideal functionality, which is a single machine which captures the desired functionality
of the task by way of a set of instructions for a “trusted party”, plus multiple “dummy parties”
whose role is to make sure that the ideal protocol syntactically looks like a distributed protocol
that consists of multiple separate machines, while forwarding all inputs to the ideal functionality
and forwarding all outputs from the ideal functionality to their specified destinations.
    We extend the concepts of ideal functionalities and ideal protocols to the present model. An ideal
functionality is now simply an ITI. (The PID of an ideal functionality may often be meaningless and
set to ⊥, but this is not formally necessary.) Extending the notion of dummy parties requires some
care, given the dynamic character of the present formalism. Indeed, dummy parties can now be
created during the course of the computation, with dynamially generated identities and programs.
Furthermore, they and can be required to transmit an unbounded volume of inputs and outputs.

The ideal protocol. The ideal protocol idealF for an ideal functionality F is defined as follows.
Let (p, s) be the party and SID. Then:

  1. When activated with input (v, eidc , id), where v is the actual input value, eidc is the extended
     identity of the calling ITI, and id = (s, p): If the reveal-sender-identity flag not set, then do


                                                   56
       nothing. Else, pass input (v, eidc ) to a session of F with identity (s, ⊥), with the forced-write
       reveal-sender-identity flags set. (Recall that setting the forced-write flag implies that if ITI
       (F, (s, ⊥)) does not exist, then one is invoked.)

   2. When activated with subroutine-output (v, (s, p), eidt ) from an ITI with code F and identity
      (s, ⊥), where v is the actual output value, pass output v to the ITI with extended identity
      eidt with reveal-sender-identity and forced-write flags set.

   3. Messages written on the backdoor tape, including corruption messages, are ignored. (The
      intention here is that, in the ideal protocol, the adversary should give corruption instructions
      directly to the ideal functionality. See more discussion in Section 7.2.)

    In terms of body and shell, both the dummy parties and the ideal functionality are shell-only
protocols, in the sense that they are only part of the security analysis, and contain no “real life
code”. Note also that the ideal functionality F is, technically, a different protocol session than
idealF , since its code is different. In particular, it can be accessed by the environment only via
the dummy parties.
    To make sure that idealF is formally PPT without over-complicating the task of protocol
design, we let the polynomial bounding the run-time of the dummy parties be large enough so
that the dummy parties will need to “shave off” only a small fraction of the import passed to
and from the ideal functionality. Specifically, let p be the polynomial bounding the run-time of F.
The polynomial bounding the run-time of idealF will be p0 (·) = p(q(·)), where q(·) is some fixed
(potentially large) polynomial. Upon receiving input of length k and with import n, idealF will
pass import n0 = n − q −1 (n) to F. Similarly, upon receiving from F subroutine-output with import
n, idealF will pass pass import n0 = n − q −1 (n) to the target ITI. (In both cases, if p(n) < k then
the activation ends without doing anything.) This mechanism guarantees that, when activated on
input or subroutine-output with import n, idealF “keeps for itself” import q −1 (n), which allows
it to make p(q(q −1 (n))) = p(n) steps - similarly to F. Furthermore, the larger q is, the faster
the ratio n0 /n tends to 1 when n grows. This convention allows the protocol designer to use the
approximation n0 ∼ n without sacrificing much in the precision of the analysis. In other words,
the dummy parties are essentially ‘transparent’ in terms of the import of inputs and subroutine
outputs.17

Thanks. We note that previous formulations of the ideal protocol ignored the need to keep
dummy parties polytime. Previous formulations of the dummy adversary had similar issues, leading
to incorrect proofs of Claims 11 and 13. We thank Ralf Küsters for pointing out these errors.

Realizing an ideal functionality. We are finally ready to define what it means for a protocol π
to meet its specification, where the specification consists of interdependent correctness, termination
and secrecy requirements, represented by way of an ideal functionality F. The basic idea is to say
that π UC-realizes F if π UC-emulates the ideal protocol for F. However, as discussed in Section
5.2, this requirement does not suffice by itself for guaranteeing meaningful security, and one needs
to additionally require that there is a clear parition between the ITIs that are “associated with a
  17
    Alternatively, one can simply keep the definition of idealF as described in items 1-3, and allow idealF to not
be polynomially bounded. This would not change the validity of the modeling and analysis, nor would it invalidate
any of the results in this work. (In particular, the conclusion of Proposition 7 would hold even if the system included
ideal protocols where idealF is as proposed in this footnote.) Still, for clarity and simplicity we make sure that
idealF is polytime.


                                                          57
session of π” and the rest of the system, and that the only communication between the these ITIs
and the rest of the system is via inputs received by the main parties of this session, and outputs
generated by these parties. We formalize this requirement by requiring that if we are to consider
realization with respect to ξ-identity-bounded environments, then the realizing protocol should be
ξ-subroutine-respecting. That is:

Definition 20 Let F be an ideal functionality, let π be a protocol, and let ξ be a predicate on
extended identities. We say that π ξ-UC-realizes F if π is ξ-subroutine-respecting, and in addition
π ξ-UC-emulates idealF , the ideal protocol for F.


6        Universal composition
This section presents the universal composition operation, and then states and proves the universal
composition theorem, with respect to the definition of UC-emulation as formulated in Section 4.
(A graphical depiction of the composition operation appears in Figure 4 on page 19.) Section
6.1 defines the composition operation and states the composition theorem. Section 6.2 presents
the proof. Section 6.3 discusses and motivates some aspects of the theorem, and sketches some
extensions.
    Both the composition operation and the proof of the composition theorem extend those in Sec-
tion 2.3 to the present model of execution. We note that the extensions are significant. In particular,
while in the basic model of Section 2.3 the operation of substituting a session of protocol φ with a
session of a protocol π (that preumably UC-realizes φ) is straightforward, in the present dynamic
model this operation is a delicate “surgery” that requires careful specification. Furthermore, in
keeping with the fact that our model of computation allows protocols to deynamically determine
their subroutines, here we formulate the composition operation as an operation on protocols, namely
as a transformation applied to the code of the calling protocol, rather than as a “model operation”
(as done in Section 2.3).18 Finally, while the composition operation of Section 2.3 replaces a single
session of φ with a session of π, here the composition operation replaces in a single step multiple
sessions of φ with instnces of π, while making sure that the change is “seamless” from the point of
view of both the calling protocol and the subroutine protocol.

6.1      The universal composition operation and theorem
The universal composition operator uc() takes as input protocols ρ, φ and π, such that ρ presumably
makes subroutine calls to a protocol φ, and π presumably UC-emulates φ. The intention is to create
a composed protocol ρφ→π = uc(ρ, π, φ) that behaves essentially the same as ρ, except that each
call to φ is replaces by a call to π. However, while the intitive intended meaning is clear, the details
require some care.
    To define the operator uc() more formally, we again make use of the shell and body mechanism.
Specifically we add shell code to ρ that changes the target code, in inputs given to the main ITIs
of top-level sessions of φ, from φ to π. Similarly, in outputs generated by these ITIs, it changes
the source code from π back to φ. To function properly the shell also copies itself to all the
sub-parties of ρ, while making sure that the bodies of all the ITIs in the extended session of the
resulting structured protocol remain unaware of the existence of the shell. In particular, the “φ to
    18
    In particular, formalizing the composition operation as an operation on protocols allows us to treat the composed
protocol as a self-contained object ρφ→π , without considering any specific model of protocol execution. It also allows
keeping the model of execution simple and unchanged throughout.


                                                          58
π” replacement takes place not only at the main ITIs of ρ, but rather at any sub-party of a session
of ρ, as long as the session of φ is a “top-level session” - namely, the caling ITI is not also a main
or sub-party ITI of a session of φ.19
    Specifically, given protocols ρ, φ and π, the composed protocol ρφ→π = uc(ρ, π, φ) is the struc-
tured protocol whose body is ρ, and whose shell, denoted σπ,φ , is the following:

   1. When activated with input (resp., subroutine-output) v passed from an ITI with code ψ and
      identity (sid, pid), do:
       (a) If this is the first activation then:
              i. If v of the form (v 0 ,(Shell:main:ρ, s; subr:π, s0 )) for some ρ, then store (ρ, s) in
                 variable main, and (π, s0 ) in variable subr. (Variable main holds the SID and code
                 of the protocol to which the UC operator is applied. If the present ITI is part of
                 an extended instance of π or φ then variable subr holds the SID and code of that
                 instance; otherwise subr holds ⊥.)
             ii. Else, store the code and SID of the body of the present ITI in variable main, and
                 set subr ← ⊥. (This occurs when the present ITI is a main ITI of an instance of the
                 calling protocol, and the sending ITI is outside that instance.)
       (b) Activate the body with input (resp., subroutine-output) v 0 from an ITI with code ψ 0 and
           identity (sid, pid), where ψ 0 is determined as follows:
              i. If v is an input, the code and SID of the body of the present ITI equal those in
                 main, and are different than (ψ, sid), then ψ 0 = ψ. (This case may occur when the
                 present ITI is a main ITI of ρ.)
             ii. Else, ψ is interpreted as structured code with shell code σρ,π,φ and with code ψ̃. If
                 v is a subroutine-output, and in addition ψ̃ = π and subr=⊥, then ψ 0 = φ. Else
                 ψ 0 = ψ̃.
   2. When the body instructs to pass input (resp., output) v 0 to an ITI running ψ 0 with identity
      (sid, pid), the shell passes input (resp., output) v to an ITI running code ψ with identity
      (sid, pid), where:
       (a) If ψ 0 = φ and subr=⊥, then ψ = (π, σρ,π,φ ) and v = (v 0 ,(Shell:main:main; subr:π, sid).
       (b) If v 0 is an output, the code and SID of the body of the present ITI equal those in subr
           and are different than (ψ 0 , sid), then ψ = (ψ 0 , σπ,φ ) and v = (v 0 , (Shell:main:main;
           subr:⊥)).
       (c) If v 0 is an output, the code and SID of the body of the present ITI equal those in main,
           and are different than (ψ 0 , sid), then ψ = ψ 0 and v = v 0 .
       (d) Else ψ = (ψ 0 , σπ,φ ), and v 0 = (v, (Shell:main:main; subr:subr)).
   3. Backdoor messages from the adversary are forwarded to the body without change. Similarly,
      backdoor messages generated by the body are forwarded to the adversary without change.

   Observe that if protocols ρ, φ, and π are PPT then ρφ→π is PPT (with a bounding polynomial
which is essentially the maximum of the individual bounding polynomials).
   When protocol φ is the ideal protocol idealF for some ideal functionality F, we denote the
composed protocol by ρF →π .
  19
     We note that this provision was not made clear in prior versions of this work, and we thank Björn Tackmann for
calling out this omission.


                                                        59
Compliant and subroutine-exposing protocols. As in Section 2.3, the UC theorem will
generally state that if protocol π UC-realizes φ then, for any protocol ρ, the protocol ρφ→π UC-
realized the original protocol ρ. However, in the present model we will need to impose a number
of restrictions on ρ, π and φ: First, we will need to require that the identities used by the parties
and sub-parties of a session of ρ when calling φ are compliant with the set ξ with respect to which
π realizes φ. Second, we will need to require that π and φ are subroutine-respecting. Additionally
π and φ will need to be constructed so that their subroutine structure is exposed to the adversary,
in the sense that there should be a mechanism for the adversary to tell, given an extended identity
of an ITI, whether this ITI is currently a member a given session of π (or φ).
    In more detail, protocol ρ is called (π, φ, ξ)-compliant if:
   • All external-writes made by main parties and sub-parties of any session of ρ, where the target
     tape is the input tape, use the forced-write mode. Similarly, all messages received on the
     subroutine-output tapes of these ITIs are expected to have reveal-sender-id flag on; other
     subroutine-outputs are rejected.
   • No two external-write instructions, out of all the external-write instructions made by the
     members of an extended session of ρ, where one instruction has target code π, and the other
     instruction has target code φ, have the same target SID.
   • The extended identities of all the ITIs in any extended session of ρ, that pass inputs to ITIs
     with code either π or φ, satisfy the predicate ξ.
The first two requirements are more general and are aimed to make sure that ρ is ‘programmed
in a robust way.’ The third requirement is specific to the protocols π and φ. Also, as in the case
of identity-bounded environments, ξ can be a polytime predicate that takes as input an entire
configuration of the system at the moment where the ITI passes an input to a member of some
protocol session, and determines whether to accept that input. (It is stressed that the predicate ξ
need not be evaluated locally by any ITI.)
    We proceed to the final requirement, namely that the subroutine structure of the relevant
session of protocols π (respectively, φ) be exposed to the adversary. As in the case of subroutine
respecting protocols, we first present the requirement in a more general way, without specifying
any implementation. Next, we present a concrete mechanism that implements the requirement.
Definition 21 Protocol π is subroutine exposing if each session s of π, occurring within an ex-
ecution of any protocol with any environment, provides an interface to the adversary where the
adversary can specify an extended identity α and is notified in response whether α is a member of
the extended session (π, s). The interface should take the form of a query on the backdoor tape of
an ITI whose extended identity should be determined given (π, s) alone.
    We implement the general requirement in a straightforward way. In a nutshell, the mechanism
requires each session s of π to include a dedicated “directory ITI”, which will keep record of tall
the ITIs that currently belong to the extended session (π, s). To find whether a given ITI is part
of the extended session of a session of π (or φ), it will query the directory ITI of that session. To
allow the directory ITI to keep the necessary record, each ITI in the extended session will inform
the directory ITI in its first activation, and also before generating any input or subroutine output
to a new ITI.
    In more detail, we specify the following mechanism, which again makes use of the body and
shell structure. Protocol π is called subroutine exposing for session s if it is structured, and its shell
code, denoted χs , proceeds as follows:

                                                   60
   1. Let > be a special identifier, interpreted as “directory”. In the first activation of an ITI with
      code π, SID s and PID p 6= >, the shell of (π, s, p) sends input started with reveal-sender-
      identity and forced-write flags set to a special directory ITI (π, s, >). Upon receiving ok from
      that directory ITI, it resumes processing its first activation.

   2. Let the local code be (µ, χs ), and let the local identity be id. Then, when the body instructs
      to provide input (resp., subroutine output) v to ITI M = (µ0 , id0 ), the shell of (µ, id) first
      sends input (sending input (resp., subroutine output)(µ0 , id0 )) to ITI (π, s, >). (See the
      instructions for ITI (π, s, >) in item 3 below.) Upon receiving subroutine-output ok from
      (π, s, >), the shell of (µ, id) external-writes v to the input tape of ITI ((µ0 , χs ), id0 ).
       Note that the sub-parties of session s of π obtain the same shell χs as the main machines of
       session (π, s), and so they all use use the same directory ITI. That is, the directory serves all
       the ITIs in the extended session (π, s).

   3. If the local identity is (π, s, >), then the body is never activated. Instead, when activated
      with input started from an ITI M , where M is either a main ITI of session s of π, or else
      M is in the set of eligible ITIs, then the shell records M as a member of the extended session
      of s. Next (π, s, >) outputs ok to M .
       When activated with input (sending input to M 0 ), or (sending subroutine to M 0 ),
       coming from an ITI M which is already recorded as a member of the extended session s,
       then: If M is a main party of session s of π, and M reports a subroutine output, then the
       shell just outputs ok to M . Else, the shell adds M 0 to the set of eligible ITIs and outputs ok
       to M .
       When activated with a backdoor message (query α) from the adversary, the shell informs
       the adversary whether ITI α is recorded as a member of extended session s.

To make sure that the directory ITI remains polytime, we require that each (invoking M ) input
should carry enough import to cover the cost of registering M , plus the cost of answering a query.20
   We are now ready to state the composition theorem. First we state a general theorem, to
be followed by two corollaries. A more quantitative statement of the UC theorem is discussed in
Section 6.3.

Theorem 22 (Universal composition: General statement) Let ρ, π, φ be PPT protocols and
let ξ be a PPT predicate, such that ρ is (π, φ, ξ)-compliant, φ and π are both subroutine respecting
and subroutine exposing, and π ξ-UC-emulates φ. Then protocol ρφ→π UC-emulates protocol ρ.

It is stressed that ρφ→π UC-emulates ρ with respect to environments which are not identity bounded
(namely, environments that can assume any identity when providing inputs to the main ITIs of ρ).
As a special case, we have:
  20
     An alternative way to turn subroutine protocols into subroutine exposing ones would be to have the directory
ITI invoke all the new ITIs as subroutines of itself, and then just have the shell of the newly invoked ITI contact the
calling ITI to obtain the ‘actual message’. This alternative method has the formal advantage that all the sub-parties
of the session are, formally, subroutines of a single ITI. (We chose to present the method above since it appears
somewhat more natural.).
   We note that another method for making sure that protocols are subroutine exposing, used in [hs11], mandates
a hierarchical tree-like subroutine structure for protocol invocations, and furthermore requires that the hierarchical
structure is represented in the SIDs. We note that this convention is sometimes overly restrictive, and also does not
always suffice.


                                                          61
Corollary 23 (Universal composition: using ideal functionalities) Let ρ, π be PPT proto-
cols, F be a PPT ideal functionality, and ξ be a PPT predicate, such that ρ is (π, idealF , ξ)-
compliant, both π and idealF are subroutine respecting and subroutine exposing, and π ξ-UC-
realizes F.Then protocol ρF →π UC-emulates protocol ρ.

   Next we concentrate on protocols ρ that securely realize some ideal functionality G. The fol-
lowing corollary essentially states that if protocol ρ securely realizes G using calls to an ideal
functionality F, F is PPT, and π securely realizes F, then ρF →π securely realizes G.

Corollary 24 (Universal composition: Realizing ideal functionalities) Let F, G be ideal func-
tionalities such that F is PPT. Let ρ be a subroutine exposing, (π, idealF , ξ)-compliant protocol
that ξ 0 -UC-realizes G, and let π be a subroutine exposing protocol that ξ-UC-realizes F. Then the
composed protocol ρF →π ξ 0 -UC-realizes G.

Proof: Let A be an adversary that interacts with ITIs running ρF →π . Theorem 22 guarantees
that there exists an adversary A0 such that execρ,A0 ,E ≈ execρF →π ,A,E for any environment E.
Since ρ ξ 0 -UC-realizes G (i.e., ρ UC-realizes G with respect to ξ 0 -identity-bounded environments),
there exists a simulator S such that execidealG ,S,E ≈ execρ,,AF ,E for any ξ 0 -identity-bounded E.
Using the transitivity of indistinguishability of ensembles we obtain that execidealG ,ρF →π ,S,E ≈
execρF →π ,A,E for any ξ 0 -identity-bounded environment E.                                         

6.2     Proof of Theorem 22
We start with an outline of the proof, in Section 6.2.1. The full proof appears in Section 6.2.2.
    We note that the proof here is significantly more complex than that of Section 2.3. One source
of complication is the dynamic nature of the boundaries between protocol sessions. Another is
the need to handle replacing multiple sessions of φ by sessions of π. In particular, the composite
simulator S needs to be able to identify, for each incoming input and backdoor message, to which
session of π (or φ) this message pertains. Reducing the environment for a single session of π (or φ)
to an environment that distinguishes ρφ→π from ρ faces similar complications. In contrast, in the
model of Section 2.3 these tasks are straightforward.

6.2.1    Proof outline

The proof uses the formulation of emulation with respect to dummy adversaries (see Claim 11).
While equivalent to the standard definition, this formulation considerably simplifies the proof.
     Let ρ, φ, π and ξ be such that π ξ-UC-emulates φ and ρ is (π, φ, ξ)-compliant. Let ρφ→π =
uc(ρ, π, φ) be the composed protocol. We wish to construct an adversary S so that no PPT E will
be able to tell whether it is interacting with ρφ→π and the dummy adversary or with ρ and S. That
is, for any E, S should satisfy
                                       execρφ→π ,D,E ≈ execρ,S,E .                               (2)
   The general outline of the proof proceeds as follows. The fact that π ξ-UC-emulates φ guar-
antees that there exists an adversary (or, simulator) Sπ , such that for any ξ-identity-bounded
environment Eπ :
                                   execπ,D,Eπ ≈ execφ,Sπ ,Eπ .                               (3)
We construct simulator S out of Sπ , and demonstrate that S satisfies (2). This is done by reduction:
Given an environment E that violates (2), we construct an environment Eπ that violates (3).

                                                 62
Construction of S. Simulator S operates as follows. Recall that E expects to interact with ITIs
running ρ. The idea is to separate the interaction between E and the backdoor tapes of the protocol
ITIs (via S) into several parts. To mimic the sending of backdoor messages to the main parties and
sub-parties of each session of π, and the receiving of backdoor messages from them, S runs a session
of the simulator Sπ . To mimic the sending and receiving of backdoor messages to/from the rest
of the ITIs in the system, S interacts directly with these ITIs, mimicking the dummy adversary.
(Recall that these ITIs are the members of the extended session of ρ, which are not members of
any extended session of π. We call these ITIs side-players.)
    More specifically, recall that E delivers, via the dummy adversary, backdoor messages to the
members of ρ, to the main parties and sub-parties of all sessions of π. In addition, E expects to
receive all backdoor messages sent by these ITIs to the dummy adversary.
    To address these expectations, S internally runs a session of the simulator Sπ for each session
of φ in the system it interacts with. When activated by E with message m to be sent to ITI M ,
S first finds out if M is to be treated as a side-party, or else it should be handled by one of the
instances of Sπ . This is done as follows:
    If M is a main ITI of one of the sessions of π, then the answer is clear: m is to be handled
by the corresponding instance of Sπ (and if no such instance of Sπ exists then one is created.)
Else, S generates an input to each one of the instances of Sπ to check with the directory ITI of
this session of π whether M is a member of that extended session. If one of the instances of Sπ
responds positively, then the input is to be handled by this instance.
    In this case, S generates an input to the said instance of Sπ with an instruction to deliver
backdoor message m to ITI M , and continues to follow the instructions of this instance of Sπ for
the rest of the activation. Here S makes sure that the overall import of the inputs to each Sπ equals
the overall import of the inputs to S so far.21
    If none of the instances of Sπ answers positively, then S treats M as a side party, namely the
backdoor message m is delivered to ITI M . Note that since π is subroutine respecting, the situation
where M is a member of two extended sessions of π does not occur.
    When activated with a backdoor message m sent by an ITI M , S again first finds out if M
is to be treated as a side-party, or else it should be handled by one of the instances of Sπ . A
similar mechanism is used: If M is a main ITI of one of the sessions of φ, then m is handed to the
corresponding instance of Sπ , and if no such instance of Sπ exist then one is created.
    If M is not a main ITI of a session of φ, then S checks with the directory ITIs of all current
top-level sessions of φ whether M is a member of that extended session. If one of them respond
positively, then S activates this instance of Sπ with an incoming backdoor message m from M , and
continues to follow the instructions of this instance of Sπ for the rest of the activation. If none
of the directory ITIs responds positively, then S treats M as a side party, namely the message
is forwarded to E. Since φ is subroutine respecting, the situation where M is a member of two
top-level extended sessions of φ never occurs.
    If sessions of φ recursively use other sessions of φ as subroutines, only the “top-level” sessions
of φ, namely only sessions of φ that are not subsidiaries of other sessions of φ, will have an instance
of Sπ associated with them. Other sessions of φ, if they exist, will be “handled” by the instance of
Sπ associated with the corresponding top-level session of φ.
  21
    Having the import of each Sπ equal the import of S is done in order to make sure that the constructed environment
Eπ is balanced. This means that the polynomial pS (·) bounding run-time of S should be pS (·) = t · pSπ (·) + q(·),
where pSπ (·) is the polynomial bounding the run-time of Sπ , t is the maximum number of sessions of φ generated by
ρ, and q(·) is some fixed polynomial bounding the overhead of running and managing the instances of Sπ .



                                                         63
   Figure 8 presents a graphical depiction of the operation of S. A more complete description of
the simulator is deferred to the detailed proof.




                                       
                                                                                  E

                    sid1                  sid2                                  


                            Ssid   1               Ssid
                                                      2                sid1             sid2
               S

Figure 8: The operation of S in the proof of the composition theorem. Inputs from E that represent
backdoor messages directed at the ITIs which are not part of an extended session of π or φ are forwarded
to the actual recipients. Inputs directed at a session of π are re-directed to the corresponding instance of S.
Backdoor messages from an instance of S are directed to the corresponding actual session of φ. For graphical
clarity we use a single box to represent a session of a multi-party protocol.




Analysis of S. Assume that there exists an environment E that distinguishes with probability
 between an interaction with S and ρ, and an interaction with D and ρφ→π , and let t be an
upper bound on the number of sessions of π that are invoked in an interaction. We construct
an environment Eπ that uses E to distinguish with probability /t between an interaction with D
and ITIs running a single session of π, and an interaction with Sπ and a single session of φ. The
construction and analysis of Eπ proceeds via a traditional hybrid argument. However, applying the
argument in our setting requires some care. Let us explain.
     Naively, we would have liked the argument to proceed as follows: For 0 ≤ l ≤ t let ρl denote
the protocol where the first l sessions of φ remain unchanged, whereas the rest of the sessions of
φ are replaced with sessions of π. Therefore, we would have ρ0 = ρφ→π and ρt = ρ. This in turn
would mean that, for a random l ∈ {1, ..., t}, E must distinguish with probability e/t between an
interaction with S and ρl−1 , and an interaction with S and ρl . We would exploit this by having Eπ
run E, choose a random l ∈ {1, ..., t}, and making sure that if Eπ interacts with D and ρφ→π (resp.,
with Sπ and φ), then the internal instance of E sees an interaction with S and ρl−1 (resp., ρl ).
     However, while the overall plan is indeed solid, it is not clear how such a hybrid protocol ρl
would look like; in particular, the ITIs running ρl might not know which is the lth session to be
(globally) invoked. Furthermore, the simulator S might need to behave differently for different
top-level sessions of π and φ, and might not have the necessary global view either.
     We get around this by defining the t + 1 hybrid experiments differently: We leave the protocol
ρ φ →π
       as is, and instead define t + 1 control functions, where the lth control function replaces the
t − l + 1 last top-level sessions of π back to being sessions of φ. Similarly, we modify the simulator S
so that it asks its environment, for each new top-level session of π or φ, whether this session should
be simulated or else the members of this session should be treated as side-parties. We let Ŝ denote
this modified simulator. We then construct Eπ so that, for each l ∈ {1, ..., t}, if Eπ interacts with D


                                                          64
and ρφ→π (resp., with with Sπ and φ) then the internal instance of E sees the (l − 1)th (resp., lth)
hybrid experiment.
    Specifically, Eπ chooses a random l ∈ {1, ..., t}, and then runs a simulated execution of E with
Ŝ and the lth control function sketched above, with the following exceptions. First, whenever Ŝ
asks whether to simulate a top-level session of π or φ, Eπ answers positively only if this is one of
the first l top-level sessions of π or φ.
    Next, Eπ uses its actual interaction (which is either with φ and Sπ , or with ρ and D) to replace
the parts of the simulated execution that have to do with the interaction with the lth session of
φ, denoted φl . That is, whenever some simulated side-player passes an input x to a main party or
sub-party of φl (i.e. the lth session of φ), the environment Eπ passes input x to the corresponding
ITI in the external execution. Outputs generated by an actual ITI running π are treated like
outputs from φl to the corresponding simulated side-player.
    Similarly , whenever the simulated adversary Ŝ passes input value v to the session of Sπ that
corresponds to φl , Eπ passes input v to the actual adversary it interacts with. Any output obtained
from the actual adversary is passed to Ŝ as an output from the corresponding instance of Sπ .
    Once the simulated E halts, Eπ halts and outputs whatever E outputs. Figure 9 presents a
graphical depiction of the operation of Eπ .



                E
                                                           E


                                                           


                              1      ...    l 1         l        l+1    ...   m

                  S


                                     S Aor              or 


Figure 9: The operation of Eπ . An interaction of E with π is simulated, so that the first l − 1 sessions of φ
remain unchanged, the lth session is mapped to the external execution, and the remaining sessions of φ are
replaced by sessions of π. For graphical clarity we use a single box to represent a session of a multi-party
protocol.




6.2.2    A detailed proof

We proceed with a detailed proof of Theorem 22, substantiating the above outline.

Construction of S. Let ρ, φ, π and ξ be such that π UC-emulates φ with respect to ξ-identity-
bounded environments and ρ is (π, φ, ξ)-compliant, and let ρπ = ρφ→π = uc(ρ, π, φ) be the com-


                                                     65
                                                Simulator S

   Initially, no instances of Sπ exist. At each activation, if the total import received so far from E,
   minus the overall import given out to backdoor tapes, minus the total lengths of all inputs and all
   incoming messages on the backdoor tape, is smaller than the security parameter then S halts. Else:

      1. When activated with input (i, (m, M, i0 )) (coming from the environment E), where i, i0 are
         the incoming and outgoing import, m is a message, and M = (id, c) is an ITI with identity
         id = (sid, pid) and code c, do:
          (a) Activate each running instance s of Sπ with an instruction, coming as input from the
              environment, to ask the directory ITI of session s of π whether M appears in its database.
              Next, when an instance s of Sπ sends a query to the directory ITI of session s of φ, S
              sends the query to that directory ITI, and forwards the response to that instance of Sπ .
          (b) If the directory of instance s of Sπ responds positively then activate this instance of Sπ
              with input (2i00 , (m, M, i0 )), and follow the instructions of this instance of Sπ for the rest
              of this activation. The value i00 is set to the overall import of the inputs received by S
              so far, minus the overall import given to this instance of Sπ so far. (Jumping ahead, we
              note that the reason for giving to this instance of Sπ import 2i00 , rather than i00 , is to
              make sure that the distinguishing environment Eπ remains balanced.)
          (c) If all instances of Sπ answer negatively, then:
                 i. If M is a main ITI of a session s0 of π, then invoke a new instance of Sπ with SID
                    s0 , activate this instance, and follow its instructions as in Step 1b.
                ii. Else deliver the backdoor message m to ITI M , subject to the run-time restrictions
                    of the dummy adversary.
      2. When activated with backdoor message m from an ITI M = (id, c), with id = (sid, pid) do:
          (a) Query the directory ITI of each existing top-level session s of φ whether M is in its
              directory. If the directory ITI of any session s responds positively then activate instance
              s of Sπ with incoming backdoor message m from ITI M , and follow the instructions of
              this instance of Sπ for the rest of this activation, with the same exception that S mimics
              the time bounds of a dummy adversary.
          (b) If all directory ITIs answer negatively then:
                 i. If M is a main ITI of a session s0 of φ, then invoke a new instance of Sπ , with SID
                    s0 , activate this session of Sπ , and follow its instructions as in Step 2a.
                ii. Else forward (M, m) to E, subject to the run-time restrictions of the dummy adver-
                    sary.

                                Figure 10: The simulator for protocol ρ.



posed protocol. Let Sπ be the simulator for a single instance of π, i.e. execφ,Sπ ,Eπ ≈ execD,π,Eπ
holds for any ξ-identity-bounded environment Eπ . Simulator S uses Sπ and is presented in Figure 10.

Validity of S. First, note that S is PPT. The polynomial p(·) bounding the running time of S
can be set to 2t times the polynomial bounding the running time of Sπ , where t is a bound on the
number of sessions of φ invoked by ρ. (Note that t ≤ n, where n is the import of the input to S.




                                                      66
This is so since E is balanced.)22
    Now, assume that there exists a balanced environment machine E that violates the validity
of S (that is, E violates Equation (2)). We construct a balanced ξ-identity-bounded environment
machine Eπ that violates the validity of Sπ with respect to a single run of π. (That is, Eπ violates
Equation (3).) More specifically, fix some input value z and a value k of the security parameter,
and assume that
                               execρφ→π ,E (k, z) − execρ,S,E (k, z) ≥ .                        (4)
We show that
                                  execπ,D,Eπ (k, z) − execφ,Sπ ,Eπ (k, z) ≥ /t                                      (5)
where t = t(k, |z|) is a polynomial function.

Towards constructing Eπ : The hybrid experiments. In preparation to presenting Eπ , we
define the following hybrid experiments. Consider an execution of protocol ρφ→π with adversary S
and environment E. Let t = t(k, |z|) be an upper bound on the number of top-level sessions of φ
within ρφ→π in this execution. (Say that a session of protocol π in an execution is top-level if it is
not a subsidiary of any other session of π in that execution. The bound t is used in the analysis
only. The ITIs running π need not be aware of t. Also, since E is PPT, t is polynomial in k, |z|.)
                    φ→π ,S
    Recall that C ρ        is the control function, defined in the model of protocol execution (Section
4.1), in the case where the protocol is ρφ→π and the adversary is S. For 0 ≤ l ≤ t, let the l-hybrid
                                        φ→π ,Ŝ,l                                              φ→π ,S
control function be the function C ρ              that is identical to the control function C ρ       , with
the following exceptions:

   1. The external-write requests to input tapes of the main ITIs of the first l top-level sessions
      of π to be invoked within the test session of ρφ→π are redirected (back) to the corresponding
      sessions of φ. The external-write requests to the input tapes of the main ITIs of all other
      sessions of π are treated as usual. That is, let sidi denote the SID of the ith top-level session
      of π to be invoked within the test session of ρφ→π ; then, given an external-write request made
      by some ITI to the input tape of ITI (π, id) where id = (sidi , pid) for i ≤ l and some pid,
      the control function writes the requested value to the input tape of ITI (φ, id). If no such
      ITI exists then one is invoked. It is stressed that these modifications apply to external-write
      requests by any ITI, including ITIs that members of extended sessions of φ and π.

   2. Similarly, whenever (φ, (sidi , pid)) requests to pass output to some ITI µ, the control function
      changes the code of the sending ITI, as written on the subroutine-output tape of µ, to be π.
   22
      The factor-t increase in the complexity of S results from the fact that the import that S gives each instance of Sπ
is comparable to the entire import of S. This, in turn, is done to account for the following two facts: (a) Our model
allows different sessions of φ to have very different imports, and S does not know the imports of the different sessions.
(b) The view of each instance of Sπ should be consistent with an execution where its environment is balanced.
Indeed, setting the import of each instance of Sπ to the maximal possible value, namely n, will resolve this issue. The
additional factor of 2 will be needed to guarantee that environment Eπ , defined later, remains balanced. (Essentially,
this factor accounts for the fact that the ITIs of the calling protocol ρ can obtain additional import via the backdoor
messages they obtain from the adversary and so the import given by ρ to each individual session of φ can be larger
than the overall import that ρ received from its environment.)
   In more restricted settings, where the imports given to the sessions of ρ are known in advance, or alternatively
where all sessions of φ have roughly equal imports, or alternatively where the run-time of Sπ depends only on the
import of the ITIs running φ, and where in addition the import of the sessions of φ is not larger than the import of
ρ, the polynomial bounding the complexity of S becomes the maximum of the polynomials bounding the run-times
of ρ, ρφ→π , and Sπ . Here the convention that the import is represented in binary rather than in unary becomes key.



                                                           67
                                        φ→π ,Ŝ,l
   3. The adversary invoked by C ρ                  , denoted Ŝ, is identical to S with the following two
      exceptions:
       (a) When Ŝ receives an input that is aimed at a new session of π, it asks its environment
           whether this session should be simulated. If yes, then Ŝ proceeds as S with respect to
           this session (see Step (1(c)i in Figure 10). If no, then from now on all the members of
           this session are treated like side-parties (Step 1(c)ii there).
       (b) Similarly, when Ŝ receives a backdoor message coming from a member of a new session
           of φ, it asks its environment whether this session should be simulated (see Step 2(b)i
           there). If yes, then Ŝ proceeds as S with respect to this session. If no, then from now
           on all the members of this session are treated like side-parties (Step 2(b)ii there).

We remark that the definition of the hybrid models, as well as that of the environment Eπ below,
make crucial use of the following facts: (a) It is possible to determine, at any moment during the
execution, which ITIs are members of which extended top-level session of φ and π. (b) Furthermore,
each ITI is a subsidiary of at most one session of either π of φ, and membership is determined at
the moment of invocation. These facts hold since π and φ are subroutine respecting.

Construction and analysis of Eπ . Environment Eπ is presented in Figure 11. We first note
that Eπ is PPT. This follows from the fact that the entire execution of the system is completed in
polynomial number of steps. (Indeed, the polynomial bounding the run-time of Eπ can be bounded
by the maximum among the polynomials bounding the running times of E, ρ, ρφ→π , and S.) Also,
since ρ is (π, φ, ξ)-compliant we have that Eπ is ξ-identity-bounded; this holds in spite of the fact
that E need not be identity bounded.
     Furthermore, we argue that Eπ is balanced. This is so since E is balanced, and at any point
during the execution we have that: (a) The overall import I0 that Eπ gave to the external adversary
so far is at least twice the import I1 that E gave its adversary so far, and (b) In any execution of
Eπ , the overall import, I2 , received by the main ITIs of any top-level session of π or φ, is at most
the overall import I3 that the main ITIs of the test session of ρ receive from E, plus the import I4
that the members of ρ received from A so far (via the backdoor messages). However the overall
import received from A is bounded by the import that E gave its adversary so far, namely I4 ≤ I1 .
Since E is balanced, we also have I3 ≤ I1 . Thus we have I2 ≤ I3 + I4 ≤ 2I1 ≤ I0 .
     The rest of the proof analyzes the validity of Eπ , demonstrating (5). For 1 ≤ l ≤ t, let
execφ,Ŝ,E l (k, z) (resp., execπ,Ŝ,E l (k, z)) denote the distribution of execφ,Ŝ,Eπ (k, z) (respectively
           π                          π
execπ,Ŝ,Eπ (k, z)) conditioned on the event that Eπ chose value l.
     We observe that execφ,Ŝ,E 0 (k, z) is distributed identically to execρ,S,E ; Indeed, the view of E is
                                 π
distributed identically in the two executions. Similarly , execπ,Ŝ,E t (k, z) is distributed identically to
                                                                        π
execρφ→π ,D,E ; Also here, the view of E is distributed identically in the two executions. Consequently,
Inequality (4) can be rewritten as:

                                execφ,Ŝ,E 0 (k, z) − execπ,Ŝ,E t (k, z) ≥ .                          (6)
                                           π                      π

   Furthermore, for all l = 1, ..., t we have:

                                 execφ,Ŝ,Eπl−1 (k, z) = execπ,Ŝ,E l (k, z).                           (7)
                                                                      π


    Equation (7) follows from inspection of Eπ and Ŝ. Indeed, the view of the simulated E within Eπ
is distributed identically in the right and the in left experiments. (This view of E is also identical

                                                         68
                                          Environment Eπ

Environment Eπ proceeds as follows, given a value k for the security parameter, and input z. The
goal is to distinguish between (a) the case where the test session runs π and the adversary is the
dummy adversary, and (b) the case where the test session runs φ and the adversary is Sπ .
We first present a procedure called Simulate(). Next we describe the main program of Eπ .
Procedure Simulate(σ, l)
   1. Expect the parameter σ to contain a global state of a system of ITMs representing an exe-
                                                                       φ →π
                                                                            ,Ŝ,l
      cution of environment E with the l-hybrid control function, C ρ             . Continue a simulated
      execution from state σ (making the necessary random choices along the way), until one of the
      following events occurs. Let sidl denote the SID of the lth top-level session of φ to be invoked
      within the test session of ρφ→π in the simulated execution.
       (a) The simulator Ŝ asks its environment whether some session, sid, is to be simulated.
           If session sid is one of the l globally first top-level sessions of π or φ to be invoked,
           then respond positively to Ŝ. Else, respond negatively. Either way, continue running Ŝ
           without passing this output of Ŝ to the simulated E.
       (b) Some simulated ITI M passes input x to an ITI M 0 which is a member of session sidl
           of π. In this case, save the current state of the simulated system in σ, pass input x from
           claimed source M to the external ITI M 0 , and complete this activation.
       (c) The simulated Ŝ passes input (m, M ) to the simulated adversary Sπ,l . In this case, pass
           the input (m, M ) to the external adversary, and complete this activation.
       (d) The simulated environment E halts. In this case, Eπ outputs whatever E outputs and
           halts.
Main program for Eπ :
                                                                  R
   1. When activated for the first time, with input z, choose l ← {1, ..., t}, and initialize a variable
      σ to hold the initial global state of a system of ITMs representing an execution of protocol
      ρφ→π in the l-hybrid model, with adversary Ŝ and environment E on input z and security
      parameter k. Next, run Simulate(σ, l).
   2. In any other activation, do:
       (a) Update the state σ. That is:
              i. If x, the new value written on the subroutine-output tape, was written by the
                 external adversary, then update the state of the simulated adversary Ŝ to include
                 an output v generated by the session of Sπ that corresponds to session sidl of φ.
             ii. If the new value x was written by another ITI, then interpret x = (M, t, m) where
                 M is an extended identity, t is a tape name and m is a value, and write m to tape
                 t of the internally simulated ITI M . If no such ITI currently exists in the internal
                 simulation, then one is invoked. (Recall that values written to the subroutine-output
                 tape of the environment include an extended identity and target tape of a target
                 ITI.)
       (b) Simulate an execution of the system from state σ. That is, run Simulate(σ, l).



                     Figure 11: The environment for a single session of π.




                                                  69
to the view of E when interacting with ρφ→π and Ŝ in the l-hybrid experiment, namely with control
            φ→π ,Ŝ,l
function C ρ          , as long as the questions of Ŝ regarding which top-level sessions of π and φ to
simulate are answered as Eπl does.)
    From Equations (6) and (7) it follows that:
                                                          t
                                                      1X
      |execπ,D,Eπ (k, z) − execφ,Sπ ,Eπ (k, z)| =   |    (execφ,Ŝ,Eπl−1 (k, z) − execπ,Ŝ,E l (k, z))|
                                                      t                                     π
                                                         l=1
                                               =               |execφ,Ŝ,E 0 (k, z) − execπ,Ŝ,E t (k, z)|
                                                                           π                     π

                                               ≥                                                      /t

in contradiction to the assumption that Sπ is a valid simulator for π.

6.3    Discussion and extensions
Some aspects of the universal composition theorem were discussed in Section 2.3. This section
highlights additional aspects, and presents some extensions of the theorem.

On composability with respect to closed environments. Recall that the closed-environment
variant of the definition of emulation (Definition 9) considers only environments that take external
input that contains no information other than its import. We note that the UC theorem still holds
even for this variant, with the same proof.

Composing multiple different protocols. The composition theorem (Theorem 22) is stated
only for the case of replacing sessions of a single protocol φ with sessions of another protocol.
The theorem holds also for the case where multiple different protocols φ1 , φ2 , ... are replaced by
protocols π1 , π2 , ..., respectively. (This can be seen either by directly extending the current proof,
or by defining a single “universal” protocol that mimics multiple different ones.)

Nesting of protocol sessions. The universal composition operation can be applied repeatedly
to perform “nested” replacements of calls to sub-protocols with calls to other sub-protocols. For
instance, if a protocol π1 UC-emulates protocol φ1 , and protocol π2 UC-emulates protocol φ2 using
calls to φ1 , then for any protocol ρ that uses calls to φ2 it holds that the composed protocol
      φ1 →π1
ρφ2 →π2      = uc(ρ, uc(π2 , π1 , φ1 ), φ2 ) UC-emulates ρ.
    Recall that the UC theorem demonstrates that the simulation overhead grows under composition
only by an additive factor that depends on the protocols involved. This means that security is
preserved even if the nesting has polynomial depth (and, consequently, the UC theorem is applied
polynomially many times).
    The fact that the UC theorem extends to arbitrary polynomial nesting of the UC operation was
independently observed in [bm04] for their variant of the UC framework.

Beyond PPT. The UC theorem is stated and proven for PPT systems of ITMs, namely for the
case where all the involved entities are PPT. It is readily seen that the theorem holds also for other
classes of ITMs and systems, as long as the definition of the class guarantees that any execution of
any system of ITMs can be “simulated” on a single ITM from the same class.



                                                    70
    More precisely, say that a class C of ITMs is self-simulatable if, for any system (I, C) of ITMs
where both I and C (in its ITM representation) are in C, there exists an ITM µ in C such that, on
any input and any random input, the output of a single session of µ equals the output of (I, C).
(Stated in these terms, Proposition 7 on page 29 asserts that for any super-additive function T (),
the class of ITMs that run in time T () is self-simulatable.)
    Say that protocol π UC-emulates protocol φ with respect to class C if Definition 9 holds when
the class of PPT ITMs is replaced with class C, namely when π, A, S, and E are taken to be ITMs
in C. Then we have:

Proposition 25 Let C be a self-simulatable class of ITMs, and let ρ, π, φ be protocols in C such
that π UC-emulates φ with respect to class C. Then protocol ρφ→π UC-emulates protocol ρ with
respect to class C.

     It is stressed, however, that the UC theorem is, in general, false in settings where systems of
ITMs cannot be simulated on a single ITM from the same class. We exemplify this point for the
case where all entities in the system are bound to be PPT, except for the protocol φ which is not
PPT.23 More specifically, we present an ideal functionality F that is not PPT, and a PPT protocol
π that UC-realizes F with respect to PPT environments. Then we present a protocol ρ, that calls
two sessions of the ideal protocol for F, and such that ρF →π does not UC-emulate ρ. In fact, for
                                   0
any PPT π 0 we have that ρF →π does not emulate ρ.
     In order to define F, we first recall the definition of pseudorandom ensembles of evasive sets,
defined in [gk89] for a related purpose. An ensemble S = {Sk }k∈N where each Sk = {sk,i }i∈{0,1}k
and each sk,i ⊂ {0, 1}k is a pseudorandom evasive set ensemble if: (a) S is pseudorandom, that is
                                                                                              R
for all large enough k ∈ N and for all i ∈ {0, 1}k we have that a random element x ← sk,i is
                                               R
computationally indistinguishable from x ← {0, 1}k . (b) S is evasive, that is for any non-uniform
                                                                      R
PPT algorithm A and for any z ∈ {0, 1}∗ , we have that Prob[i ← {0, 1}k : A(z, i) ∈ sk,i ] is
negligible in k, where k = |z|. It is shown in [gk89], via a counting argument, that pseudorandom
evasive set ensembles exist.
     Now, define F as follows. F uses the ensemble S and interacts with one ITI only. Given security
                                 R
parameter k, it first chooses i ← {0, 1}k and outputs i. Then, given an input (x, i0 ) ∈ {0, 1}k × [2k ],
                                                                                           R
it first checks whether x ∈ sk,i . If so, then it outputs success. Otherwise it outputs r ← sk,i0 .
                                                                                       R
    Protocol π for realizing F is simple: Given security parameter k it outputs i ← {0, 1}k . Given
                                     R
an input x ∈ {0, 1}k , it outputs r ← {0, 1}k . It is easy to see that π UC-realizes F: Since S is
evasive, then the probability that the input x is in the set sk,i is negligible, thus F outputs success
only with negligible probability. Furthermore, F outputs a pseudorandom k-bit value, which is
indistinguishable from the output of π.
    Now, consider the following F-hybrid protocol ρ. ρ runs two sessions of F, denoted F1 and
F2 . Upon invocation with security parameter k, it activates F1 and F2 with k, and obtains the
                                         R
indices i1 and i2 . Next, it chooses x1 ← {0, 1}k , and feeds (x1 , i2 ) to F1 . If F1 outputs success
then ρ outputs success and halts. Otherwise, π feeds the value x2 obtained from F1 to F2 . If F2
outputs success then ρ outputs success; otherwise it outputs fail. It is easy to see that ρ always
outputs success. However, ρF →π never outputs success. In fact, the separation is stronger: F any
                                                              0
PPT protocol π 0 that UC-realizes F, we have that ρF →π outputs success only with negligible
probability.
 23
      We thank Manoj Prabhakaran and Amit Sahai for this example.



                                                     71
7     UC formulations of some computational models
As discussed earlier, the basic model of computation provides no explicit mechanism for modeling
communication over a network. It also provides only a single, limited mechanism for scheduling
processes in a distributed setting, and no explicit mechanism for expressing adversarial control over,
or infiltration of, computational entities. It also does not provide explicit ways to express leakage of
information from computing devices. Indeed, the bare model does not immediately provide natural
ways to represent realistic protocols, attacks, or security requirements.
     This section puts forth mechanisms for capturing realistic protocols, attacks and security re-
quirements, by way of setting conventions on top of the basic model of Section 4.1. It also formulates
a number of basic ideal functionalities that capture common abstractions, or models of communi-
cation; As motivated in the introduction, these abstract models allow composing protocols that use
the ideal functionality as an abstract model with protocols that realize the functionality using less
abstract modeling, while preserving overall security.
     In addition to capturing some specific conventions and ideal functionalities, this section exem-
plifies how the basic model can be used as a platform for more fine-tuned and expressive models.
It also provides a general toolbox of techniques for writing ideal functionalities that capture other
situations, concerns, and guarantees.
     Section 7.1 presents a mechanism for expressing various forms of party corruption, namely mod-
eling situations where computational entities deviate from their prescribed protocol in a potentially
adversarial way. Section 7.2 presents some useful conventions for writing ideal functionalities.
     Section 7.3 then presents ideal functionalities that capture some commonplace abstract models
of communication, specifically authenticated, secure, and synchronous communication. Finally,
Section 7.4 presents an ideal functionality that captures non-concurrent protocol execution.

7.1   Modeling party corruption
The operation of party corruption is a common basic construct in modeling and analyzing the
security of cryptographic protocols. Party corruption is used to capture a large variety of concerns
and situations, including preserving secrecy in face of eavesdroppers, adversarial (“Byzantine”)
behavior, resilience to viruses and exploits, resilience to side channel attacks, incoercibility, etc.
    The basic model of protocol execution and the definition of protocol emulation from Section 5 do
not provide an explicit mechanism for modeling party corruption. Instead, this section demonstrates
how party corruption can be modeled via a set of conventions regarding protocol instructions to
be performed upon receiving a special backdoor message from the adversary. We argue that this
choice keeps the basic model simpler and cleaner, and at the same time provides greater flexibility
in capturing a variety of concerns via the corruption mechanism.
    One issue that needs to be addressed by any mechanism for modeling party corruption within
the current framework is to what extent should the environment be made aware of the corruption
operation. On one extreme, if the environment remains completely unaware of party corruptions,
then our notion of protocol emulation would become rather loose; in particular protocol π could
emulate protocol φ even if attacks mounted on π without corrupting anyone can only be emulated
by attacks on φ that corrupt all participants. On the other extreme, if the environment learns the
entire extended identities of all corrupted ITIs then the emulated and emulating protocol would
need to be identical.
    We provide the following mechanism for party corruption. This mechanism determines how the
behavior of an ITI changes as a result of a particular type of corruption. Furthermore, it specifies

                                                  72
how the information regarding which ITIs are currently corrupted is collected and made available
to the environment upon request. The idea here is to allow the protocol analyst to determine the
amount of information that the environment learns about the corruption operations, which in turn
affects the level of security provided by UC-emulation.
    To corrupt an ITI M , the adversary writes (corrupt, cp) on the backdoor tape of M , where cp
is some parameter of the corruption. Let f : {0, 1}∗ → {0, 1}∗ be an “identity masking” function,
which partially masks the ITI’s identity. (See more discussion on this function below.)
    Say that a protocol π is standard f -revealing corruption if the shell of π includes the following
instructions: (a) Upon receipt of a backdoor message (corrupt, cp), the shell of ITI (π, s, p) first
passes a (corrupt, cp, f (π, s, p)) input to a special corruption aggregation ITI (π, s, A ) where A is
a special identifier. Once the control returns to the corrupted ITI, the behavior of the shell varies
according to the specific corruption type. See some examples below. (b) When the body of π
instructs to send input to a subroutine ITI M , the shell of π ITI augments the code of M with
shell code so that the resulting code M 0 is a standard f -revealing corruption protocol.
    The corruption aggregation ITI (π, s, A ) proceeds as follows: When invoked with a corruption
notification input (corrupt, cp) from ITI M , ITI (π, s, A ) records (p, M ) and returns control to
M . When invoked with a (Report corruption status) input from some ITI (presumably, the
environment) , (π, s, A ) returns to that ITI the list of all notifications of corruption. (We note that
the corruption aggregation machine plays a similar role to the directory machine for subroutine
exposing protocols, with the exception that here the aggregate information is given to the envi-
ronment rather than to the adversary. This in particular means that the corruption aggregation
machine needs to be a main ITI of protocol session π, s. Furthermore, when a corrupted ITI M is
a member of multiple nested extended sessions of protocols we might want to have M register as
corrupted with the aggregation machines of some or all of these protocol sessions.)

On the identity masking function. The identity masking function is a mechanism that al-
lows specifying how much information the environment obtains about the corrupted ITIs, and in
particular how much information it obtains about the actual subroutine structure of the analyzed
protocol. This, in turn, determines the degree by which the structure of an extended session of π
can diverge from the structure of an extended session of φ, and still have π UC-emulate φ.
    For instance, consider the case where f (π, id) = id, i.e. f outputs the identity (but not the code)
of the corrupted ITI. This means that the environment receives the identities of all the corrupted
ITIs. In this case, if protocols π and φ are standard f -revealing corruption and π UC-emulates φ,
then it must be the case that for each ITI in an extended session of π there exists an ITI in the
extended session of φ with the same identity.
    A somewhat more relaxed identity-masking function returns only the pid of the corrupted ITI.
This makes sense when ITIs are naturally grouped into “clusters” where all the ITIs in a cluster have
the same pid, and allows hiding the internal subroutine structure within a cluster. (A cluster may
correspond to a single physical computer or a single administrative entity.) This identity-masking
function is instrumental in modeling pid-wise corruptions, discussed in Section 7.2.
    Another natural identity-masking function considers the case where the sid is constructed in
a hierarchical way and includes the names of parent sessions in the “subroutine graph”. Here the
identity-masking function returns the pid, plus information of some ancestors of the current sid.
This allows capturing cases where π and φ consist of multiple “sessions” of another protocol, where
the number and identity of sessions is the same in π and in φ, but the internal subroutine structure
within each session in π is different than in φ.


                                                  73
    Finally we note that π can UC-emulate φ even when π and φ are not standard f -revealing
corruption with respect to the same f . In particular, when π is a classic multi-party protocol and
φ is the ideal protocol for some ideal functionality, the behavior of φ in case of party corruption
will often be very different than that of π. See more details in Section 7.2.

7.1.1   Some corruption models

We sketch how several prevalent party corruption models can be expressed within the current
framework. (It should be kept in mind that if the body of the ITI is structured then the behavior
of the inner shells might change as a result of the corruption operation. At the same time, the
party corruption shell is unaware of, and cannot access, shells that are outer to it.)

Byzantine corruption. Perhaps the simplest form of corruption to capture is total corruption,
often called Byzantine corruptions. A protocol (or, rather, a shell) is Byzantine-corruptions if, upon
receiving the (corrupt) message, the shell first complies with the above requirements of being a
standard f -revealing corruption protocol for some f . From this point on, upon receiving value m
on the backdoor tape, the shell external-writes m (where m presumably includes the message, the
recipient identity and all relevant flags). In an activation due to an incoming input or subroutine-
output, the shell sends the entire local state to the adversary. The setting where data erasures are
not trusted can be modeled by restricting to write once protocols, i.e. protocols where each data
cell can be written to at most once. Note that here the body of π becomes inactive from the time
of corruption on.

Non-adaptive (static) corruptions. The above formulation of Byzantine-corruption shells cap-
tures adaptive party corruptions, namely corruptions that occur as the computation proceeds, based
on the information gathered by the adversary so far. It is sometimes useful to consider also a weaker
threat model, where the identities of the adversarially controlled ITIs are fixed before the compu-
tation starts; this is the case of non-adaptive (or, static) adversaries. In the present framework, a
protocol is static-corruption if it instructs, upon invocation, to send a notification message to the
adversary; a corruption message is considered only if it is delivered in the very next activation.
Later corruption messages are ignored.

Passive (honest-but-curious) corruptions. Byzantine corruptions capture situations where
the adversary obtains total control over the behavior of corrupted ITIs. Another standard corrup-
tion model only allows the adversary to observe the internal state of the corrupted ITI. We call
such adversaries passive. Passive corruptions can be captured by setting the reaction of the shell to
a (corrupt) message from the adversary, as follows. A protocol π is passive corruptions if, upon re-
ceiving a (corrupt) message, a corrupted flag is set. Upon receipt of an input or subroutine-output,
the shell activates the body, and at the end of the activation, if the corrupted flag is set, then it sends
the internal state to the adversary. If the next activation is due to an incoming (continue) message
from the adversary, then the shell performs the external-write operation instructed by the body in
the previous activation. Else the shell halts and remains inactive in all future activations. When
activated due to another incoming message from the adversary, the shell forwards the message to
the body, and delivers any message that the body prepares to write in this activation.
    We make two additional remarks: First, the variant defined here allows the adversary to learn
whenever a passively corrupted ITI is activated; it also allows the adversary to make the ITI


                                                    74
halt. Alternative formulations are possible, where the adversary only learns the current state of a
corrupted ITI, and is not allowed to make the ITI halt.
    Second, the variant defined here does not allow the adversary to modify input values to the
ITI. Alternative formulations, where the adversary is allowed to modify the inputs of the corrupted
ITIs, have been considered in the literature. Such formulations can be naturally represented here
as well. (Note however that with non-adaptive corruptions the two variants collapse to the same
one.)

Physical (“side channel”) leakage attacks. A practical and very realistic security concern is
protection against “physical attacks” on computing devices, where the attacker is able to gather
information on, and sometimes even modify, the internal computation of a device via physical access
to it. (Examples include the “timing attack” of [k96], the “microwave attacks” of [bdl97, bs97] and
the “power analysis” attacks of [cjrr99].) These attacks are often dubbed “side-channel” attacks
in the literature. Some formalizations of security against such attacks appear in [mr04, glmmr04].
    This type of attacks can be directly modeled via different reaction patterns of ITIs to corruption
messages. For instance, the ability of the adversary to observe certain memory locations, or to detect
whenever a certain internal operation (such as modular multiplication) takes place, can be directly
modeled by having the corrupted ITI send to the adversary an appropriate function of its internal
state. In a way, leakage can be thought of as a more nuanced variant of passive corruption, where
the corrupted ITI discloses only some function of its internal state, and furthermore does it only
once (per leakage instruction).
    One limitation of this modeling is that it only allows the adversary to obtain leakage information
from individual processes (or, ITIs). To capture realistic settings where side-channel attacks collect
joint information from multiple protocol sessions that run on the same physical device, and protocols
that are resilient to such attacks, one needs to augment the formal modeling of side channel attacks
with a mechanism that allows for joint, non-modular leakage from multiple ITIs. Such a mechanism
is described in [bch12].

Transient (mobile) corruptions and proactive security. All the corruption methods so
far represent “permanent” corruptions, in the sense that once an ITI gets corrupted it remains
corrupted throughout the computation. Another variant allows ITIs to “recover” from a corruption
and regain their security. Such corruptions are often called mobile (or, transient). Security against
such corruptions is often called proactive security. Transient corruptions can be captured by adding
a (recover) message from the adversary. Upon receiving a (recover) message, the ITI stops
reporting its incoming messages and inputs to the adversary, and stops following the adversary’s
instructions. (recover) messages are reported to the corruption aggregation ITI defined above in
the same way as corruption messages.

Coercion. In a coercion attack an external entity tries to influence the input that the attacked
ITI contributes to a computation, without physically controlling the attacked ITI at the time where
the input is being contributed. The coercion mechanism considered here is to ask the coerced party
to reveal, at some later point in time, its local state at time of obtaining the secret input, and then
verify consistency with the public transcript of the protocol.
    Resilience to coercion is meaningful in settings where the participants are humans that are
susceptible to social pressure; Voting schemes are a quintessential example.
    The idea is to provide the entities running the protocol with a mechanism by which they can


                                                  75
provide the attacker with “fake input” and “fake random input” that will be indistinguishable
for the adversary from the real input and random input that were actually used in the protocol
execution. This way, the attacker will be unable to tell whether the attacked party used the fake
input or perhaps another value.
    In the present framework, coercion attacks can be modeled as follows, along the lines of [cg96,
cgp15]. We assume that the protocol description includes a “faking algorithm” F . Furthermore,
each ITI M has a “caller ITI”, which represents either an algorithm or a human user. We say that
a protocol is coercion compliant if, upon receipt of a coercion instruction, the shell of the recipient
ITI notifies its caller ITI that a coercion instruction was received. Then, if the caller ITI returns
a “cooperate” message, then the coerced ITI discloses its entire internal state to the adversary. If
the parent ITI returns a “report fake input v” message, then the coerced ITI runs F on v and its
current internal state, and sends the output of F to the adversary.
    Incoercibility, or resilience to coercion attacks, is then captured by way of realizing an ideal
functionality F that guarantees ‘ideal incoercibility’ as follows: Upon receiving an instruction to
coerce some ITI P , the ideal functionality forwards this request to the caller ITI of P . If in return
the caller ITI inputs an instruction to cooperate, the ideal functionality reports to the adversary
the true input of P ; If the caller ITI returns an instruction to fake an input v, then the ideal
functionality simply reports v to the adversary.
    Protocol π is incoercible if it is coercion compliant, and in addition it UC-realizes an ideal
functionality F that guarantees ideal incoercibility.

7.2   Writing ideal functionalities
This section sets some writing conventions that may help making pseudo-code descriptions of ideal
functionalities clearer and more readable. It also presents a number of methodologies for writing
ideal functionalities in a way that captures some commonplace security requirements.

Determining the identities of ITIs that provide input and receive outputs. Recall that
the framework provides a way for an ideal functionality F to learn the extended identities of the
ITIs that provide inputs to it, and to determine the extended identities of the ITIs that obtain
output from it. In fact, this holds not only with respect to the immediate callers of F, which are
the dummy parties in the ideal protocol for F. Rather, the code of the dummy parties (See Section
5.3 on page 56) guarantees that F sees the extended identities of the ITIs that provide inputs to the
dummy parties, and determines the extended identities of the ITIs that obtain subroutine-outputs
from the fummy parties. We note that this feature of the framework is crucial for the ability to
capture realistic tasks. (A quintessential example for this need is Fauth , the message authentication
functionality, described in the next section.)
    When writing ideal functionalities, we allow ourselves to say “receive input v from party P ” and
mean “upon activation with an input value v, verify that the writing ITI is a dummy party which
received the input from an ITI with extended identity P ”. Similarly we say “generate output v for
party P ”, meaning “perform an external-write operation of value v to a dummy party that will in
turn write value v on the subroutine-output tape of ITI with extended identity P .” Note that the
dummy ITI, as well as ITI P , may actually be created as a result of this write instruction.
    We also slightly abuse terminology and say that an ITI P is a parent of F even when P is a
parent of a dummy party in the ideal protocol for F.




                                                  76
Behavior upon party corruption. In the ideal protocol idealF , corruption of parties is mod-
eled as messages written by the adversary on the backdoor tape of the ideal functionality F. (Recall
that backdoor messages delivered to the dummy parties are ignored.) Indeed, the behavior of F
upon receipt of a corruption message is an important part of the security specification represented
by F.
    We first restrict attention to the case where F only accepts corruption instructions for identities
that match the identities of the existing dummy parties, or in other words the identities of the main
ITIs of idealF . Specifically, we say that an ideal functionality F is standard PID-wise corruption if
the following holds:

  1. Upon receiving a (corrupt p) message from the adversary, where p is a PID of a dummy
     party for the present session of idealF , F marks p as corrupted and returns to the adversary
     all the values received from p and output to p so far. In addition, from this point on, input
     values from the dummy party p are ignored. Instead, F now takes from the adversary input
     instructions for p; that is, upon receipt of a backdoor message (input, p, v), F behaves as
     if it received input v from p. Finally, all output values intended for p are sent to the adversary
     instead.
  2. Upon receiving a (Report corruption status) input from some caller ITI, F returns the
     list of corrupted identities to the caller.

    The above set of instructions captures the standard behavior of the ideal process upon corruption
of a party in existing definitional frameworks, e.g. [c00, g04]. Note that here the “granularity” of
corruption is at the level of PID for the main ITIs of the session. That is, a party can be either
uncorrupted or fully corrupted. This also means that the security requirements from any protocol
π that realizes F is only at the granularity of corrupting main ITIs. This is so even if the main
ITIs of π have subroutines and these subroutines are corrupted individually. (In particular, the
identity-masking function of π can only output identities of main parties of π.)
    Alternatively, ideal functionalities might be written so as to represent more refined corruption
mechanisms, such as corruption of specific subroutines or sub-sessions, forward secrecy, leakage,
coercion, etc. Furthermore, ideal functionalities may change their overall behavior depending on
the identity or number of corrupted ITIs. We leave further discussion and examples out of scope.

Delayed output. Recall that an output from an ideal functionality to a party is read by the
recipient immediately, in the next activation. In contrast, we often want to be able to represent
the fact that outputs generated by distributed protocols are inevitably delayed due to delays in
message delivery. One natural way to relax an ideal functionality so as to allow this slack is to
have the functionality “ask for the permission of the adversary” before generating an output. More
precisely, we say that an ideal functionality F sends a delayed output v to ITI M if it engages in the
following interaction: Instead of simply outputting v to M , F first sends to the adversary (on the
backdoor tape) a message that it is ready to generate an output to M . If the output is public, then
the value v is included in the note to the adversary. If the output is private then v is not mentioned
in this note. Furthermore, the note contains a unique identifier that distinguishes it from all other
messages sent by F to the adversary in this execution. When the adversary replies (say, by echoing
the unique identifier on F’s backdoor tape), F outputs the value v to M .

Running arbitrary code. It is often convenient to let an ideal functionality F receive a de-
scription of an arbitrary code c from the adversary, and then run this code while inspecting some

                                                  77
properties of it. One use of this “programming technique” is for writing ideal functionalities with
only minimal, well-specified requirements from the implementation. For instance, F may receive
from the adversary a program; it will then run this program as long as some set of security or cor-
rectness properties are satisfied. If a required property is violated, F will output an error message
to the relevant ITIs. Examples of this use include the signature and encryption functionalities as
formalized in [ch11, c05], or non-interactive zero knowledge as in [gos12]. Other examples exist
in the literature. Another use for this technique is to enable expressing the requirement that some
adversarial processes be carried out in isolation from the external environment the protocol runs
in. An example for this use is the formulation of non-concurrent security in Section 7.4.
    At first glance, this technique seems problematic in that F is expected to run algorithms of
arbitrary polynomial run-time, whereas F’s own run-time is bounded by some fixed polynomial.
We get around this technicality by having F not run c directly, and instead invoke a subroutine ITI
γ for running c, where the polynomial bounding the run-time of γ is appropriately set by F. The
import to γ would be provided by the adversary, namely it would be included in the request to run
c (which is written on F’s backdoor tape) and then handed over to γ by F. (To make sure that γ
is a new ITI rather than an existing one, F can e.g. use the same mechanism used in Section 5.2
to guarantee that protocols are subroutine respecting.)

7.3     Some communication models
We turn to capturing, within the UC framework, some abstract models of communication. We
consider four commonplace models: Completely unprotected (or, adversarially controlled) commu-
nication, authenticated point-to-point communication, secure point-to-point communication, and
synchronous communication.
    We first note that the present bare framework, without additional ideal functionalities, already
provides a natural way for modeling communication over an unprotected communication medium
that provides no guarantees regarding the secrecy, authenticity, or delivery of the communicated
information. Specifically, sending of a message over such a communication medium amounts to
forwarding this message to the adversary. Receiving a message over such a medium amounts to
receiving the message from the adversary. (Expressing this high level specification in terms of
body and shell may proceed as follows: When the body completes an activation with an outgoing
message (network,m), the shell writes (network,m) on the backdoor tape of the adversary.
Similarly, when activated with a message (network,m) on the backdoor tape, the shell activates
the body with incoming message (network,m).)
    Capturing the other three abstractions requires more work. Sections 7.3.1, 7.3.2, and 7.3.3
present ideal functionalities for capturing authenticated, secure, and synchronous communication,
respectively.

7.3.1    Authenticated Communication

Ideally authenticated message transmission means that an entity R will receive a message m from
an entity S only if S has sent the message m to R. Furthermore, if S sent m to R only t times
then R will receive m from S at most t times. These requirements are of course meaningful only
as long as both S and R follow their protocols, namely are not corrupted. In the case of adaptive
corruptions, the authenticity requirement is meaningful only if both S and R are uncorrupted at
the time when R completed the protocol.
    We assume that the sender S knows R, namely the identity of the receiver, at the onset of the


                                                 78
protocol. However, if S gets corrupted during the course of the protocol execution then the actual
receiver identity R0 may be different than the original intended identity, R. Furthermore, R0 may
be determined adversarially and adaptively during the protocol execution. The receiver may not
have any knowledge of S ahead of time, yet it learns the sender identity by the end of the protocol.
    In the present framework, protocols that assume ideally authenticated message transmission can
be cast as protocols with access to an “ideal authenticated message transmission functionality” that
captures and formalizes the functionality and security requirements that are informally discussed
in the above two paragraphs.
    A first step towards formalization is casting the above informal notion of “principals”, namely,
S and R, within the formal model. Specifically, we model the sender and receiver as two ITIs -
or, extended identities - S and R. (One possible objection to this modeling is that in reality the
sender does not necessarily know the code of the receiver. However, this lack of knowledge can
be represented by having the code of R be less than fully specified, say even a universal machine.
Said otherwise, the “code of R” represents “whatever S wishes to specify about the code of the
recipient”.)
    The ideal authenticated message transmission functionality, denoted Fauth , is presented in
Figure 12. In its first activation, Fauth expects its input to be of the form (Send, sid, R, m) with
sender ITI S. (More precisely, the sender ITI will be the dummy party for Fauth , and S will be
the extended identity of the ITI that provided this dummy with input.) Her sid is the SID for
Fauth and R is the extended identity of the intended recipient ITI. (Of course, the input to Fauth
contains also the PID of Fauth - which is ⊥ - as well as the value of the forced-write flag and the
reveal-sender id flag - which are both 1. We omit these values for clarity.)
    Fauth then generates a public delayed output (Send, sid, S, R, m) to R. That is, Fauth first
sends this value to the adversary on its backdoor tape. When the adversary responds on the
backdoor tape of Fauth , it writes (Send, sid, S, R, m) to the subroutine output tape of R. (More
precisely, Fauth outputs this value to a dummy party with identity (sid, R); that dummy party
then outputs this value to R.)
    Fauth also accepts an adversarial corruption request. Once corrupted, and as long as the
message is not yet delivered to the receiver, Fauth lets the adversary determine the value of the
message to be delivered, as well as the identity of the receiver. Finally, in response to a request,
coming from S, Fauth reports whether it was corrupted. (As discussed in Section 7.2, the request
to report corruption state is part of the “mental experiment” used to assert security, and does
not correspond to any actual input generated by some “actual real-lief code”. Specifically, these
requests can be thought of as coming from some shell of the sender S, where as this shell then
reports the information onwards until eventually the environment leans the corruption information
in some agrregate form.)
    We highlight several points regarding the security guarantees provided by Fauth . First, Fauth
reveals the contents of the message, as well as the extended identities of the sender and the receiver,
to the adversary. This captures the fact that secrecy of the message and of the sender and receiver
identities is not guaranteed. (One might argue that revealing the code of the sender and receiver
is not called for and exposes too much about the participants; however, this modeling issue can be
easily overcome by designing protocols such that the codes of the actual sender and receiver ITIs
do not contain sensitive information.)
    Second, Fauth allows the adversary to change the contents of the message and destination, as
long as it is corrupted at the time of delivery, even if it was uncorrupted at the point when it sent
the message. This provision captures the fact that in general the received value is not determined


                                                  79
                                               Functionality Fauth

       1. Upon invocation, with input (Send, sid, R, m) from ITI S, send backdoor message
          (Sent,sid, S, R, m) to the adversary.
       2. Upon receiving backdoor message (ok, sid): If not yet generated output, then output
          (Sent,sid, S, R, m) to R.
       3. Upon receiving backdoor message (Corrupt, sid, m0 , R0 ), record being corrupted. Next, if not
          yet generated output then output (Sent,sid, S, R0 , m0 ) to R0 .
       4. On input (ReportCorrupted, sid) from S: If corrupted, output yes to S. Else output no.
       5. Ignore all other inputs and backdoor messages.

                       Figure 12: The Message Authentication functionality, Fauth



until the point where the recipient actually generates its output. (In the present formalization, we
do not distinguish between the case where the sender is corrupted and the case where the receiver
is corrupted. More fine-grained formalizations may provide a distinction between the two cases -
for instance, if only the intended recipient is corrupted then only the contents of the message can
be adversarially controlled; the identity of the receiver remains R.) 24
    Third, Fauth guarantees “non-transferable authentication”: By interacting with Fauth , the
receiver R does not gain ability to run protocols with a third party V , whereby V reliably learns
that the message was indeed sent by the sender. In situations where this strong guarantee is not
needed or not achievable, it might suffice to use an appropriately relaxed variant of Fauth (see e.g.
[csv16]).
    Finally, we highlight two modeling choices of Fauth . First, Fauth deals with authenticated
transmission of a single message. Authenticated transmission of multiple messages is obtained by
using multiple sessions of Fauth , and relying on the universal composition theorem for security.
This is an important property: It allows different sessions of protocols that use authenticated
communication to use different sessions of Fauth , thereby making sure that these protocols can be
analyzed per session, independently of other sessions. This modeling also significantly simplifies
the analysis of protocols that obtain authenticated communication.
    Another modeling aspect is that Fauth generates an output for the receiver without requiring
the receiver to provide any input. This means that the SID is determined exclusively by the sender,
and there is no need for the sender and receiver to agree on an SID in advance.25

On realizing Fauth . Fauth is used not only as a formalization of the authenticated communi-
cation model. It also serves as a way for specifying the security requirements from authentication
protocols. (As discussed earlier, the validity of this dual use comes from the universal composition
theorem.) We very briefly summarize some basic results regarding the realizability of Fauth .
   24
      Early formulations of Fauth failed to let the adversary change the delivered message and recipient identity if the
sender gets corrupted between sending and delivery. This results in an unrealistically strong security guarantee, that
is not intuitively essential and is not provided by reasonable authentication protocols. This oversight was pointed
out in several places, including [hms03, af04].
   25
       We point out that this non-interactive formulation of Fauth makes crucial use of the fact that the underlying
computational model from Section 3.1 allows for dynamic addressing and generation of ITIs. Indeed, allowing such
simple and powerful formulation of Fauth and similar functionalities has been one of the main motivations for the
present formulation of the underlying computational model.


                                                          80
   As a first step, we note that it is impossible to realize Fauth in the bare model, except by
protocols that never generate any output. That is, say that a protocol is useless if, with any PPT
environment and adversary, no party ever generates output with non-negligible probability. Then,
we have:

Claim 26 ([c04]) Any protocol that UC-realizes Fauth in the bare model is useless.

    Still, there are a number of ways to realize Fauth algorithmically, given some other abstractions
on the system. Following the same definitional approach, these abstractions are again formulated by
way of ideal functionalities. One such ideal functionality (or, rather, family of ideal functionalities)
allows the parties to agree on secret values in some preliminary stage, thus capturing a “pre-
shared key” or perhaps “password” mechanisms. Another family of ideal functionalities provide
the service of a trusted “bulletin board”, or “public ledger”, where parties can register public values
(e.g., public keys), and where potential receivers can correctly obtain the public values registered
by a party.
    In this context, different abstractions (ideal functionalities) represent different physical, social
and algorithmic mechanisms for providing authentication, or binding between long-term entities
and cryptographic constructs that can be used in message authentication. Indeed, different ideal
functionalities lead to different authentication protocols and mechanisms.
    An important aspect of the modeling of these methods of binding between identities and keys
(whether these are based on pre-shared keys, on public-key infrastructure, or other means) is the fact
that realistic binding methods are typically long-lived, and are in particular used for authentication
of multiple messages, which may come from different contexts and protocols. This appears to be
incompatible with the formulation of Fauth as an ideal functionality that handles a single message.
Indeed, a protocol that UC-realizes Fauth using some long-term-binding module (say, a digital
signature algorithm along with public-key infrastructure) cannot be subroutine-respecting, unless
each session of the protocol uses a new session of the long-term-binding module - which does not
capture reality.
    To allow for modular analysis of such situations, a number of mechanisms exist in the litera-
ture for “decomposing” a protocol where multiple sessions of Fauth (or of a protocol that realizes
Fauth ) jointly use a single session of a long-term authentication module, into multiple smaller (and
overlapping) components, where each component consists of a single session of Fauth , along with a
long-term authentication module. One can then use the UC theorem to assert the security of the
desired system (which consist of multiple session of the protocol realizing Fauth where all sessions
use the same session of the long-term authentication module). We leave these mechanisms out of
scope; See details in [cr03, kt13].

7.3.2   Secure Communication

The abstraction of secure communication, often called secure message transmission, usually means
that the communication is authenticated, and in addition the adversary has no access to the contents
of the transmitted message. It is typically assumed that the adversary learns that a message was
sent, plus some partial information on the message (such as, say, its length, or more generally some
information on the domain from which the message is taken). In the present framework, having
access to an ideal secure message transmission mechanism can be cast as having access to the
“secure message transmission functionality”, Fsmt , presented in Figure 13. The behavior of Fsmt is
similar to that of Fauth with the following exception. Fsmt is parameterized by a leakage function


                                                  81
l : {0, 1}∗ → {0, 1}∗ that captures the allowed information leakage on the transmitted plaintext m.
That is, the adversary only learns the leakable information l(m) rather than the entire m. (In fact,
Fauth can be regarded as the special case of Fsmtl   where l is the identity function.)

                                                         l
                                          Functionality Fsmt

    l
   Fsmt proceeds as follows, when parameterized by leakage function l : {0, 1}∗ → {0, 1}∗ .

      1. Upon invocation with input (Send, sid, R, m) from ITI S, send backdoor message
         (Sent,sid, S, R, l(m)) to the adversary.
      2. Upon receiving backdoor message (Corrupt, sid), record being corrupted and send m to the
         adversary.
      3. Upon receiving backdoor message (ok, sid, m0 , R0 ): if corrupted then output (Sent,sid, S, m0 )
         to R0 . Else If not yet generated output then output (Sent,sid, S, m) to R.
      4. On input (ReportCorrupted, sid) from S: If corrupted, output yes to S. Else output no.
      5. Ignore all other inputs and backdoor messages.

 Figure 13: The Secure Message Transmission functionality parameterized by leakage function l.


     Like Fauth , Fsmt only deals with transmission of a single message. Secure transmission of
multiple messages is obtained by using multiple sessions of Fsmt . Following our convention regarding
party corruption, when either the sender or the receiver are corrupted, Fsmt discloses (R, m) to the
adversary. In addition, like Fauth , Fsmt allows the adversary to change the contents of the message
and the identity of the recipient as long as it is corrupted before message delivery. This is so even
if it was uncorrupted at the point when the message was first received from the sender.
     Another natural difference between Fsmt and Fauth is that Fsmt allows the adversary, upon
corruption, to first learn the message m, and only then to determine m0 , R0 . Also note that here,
in contrast to the case of Fauth , the behavior of Fsmt upon corruption is meaningful even if the
corruption takes place after the execution of the protocol has completed.

Stronger variants. Forward Secrecy is the requirement that the message should remain secret
even if the sender and/or the receiver are compromised - as long as the compromise happened
after the protocol execution has ended. A natural way to capture forward secrecy in the present
formulation is to modify the behavior upon corruption of either the sender or the receiver, so as to
not disclose the plaintext message m to the adversary if the corruption happened after the message
has been delivered. The rest of the code of Fsmt remains unchanged.
    Another common requirement is protection from traffic analysis. Recall that, whenever a party
S sends a message to some R, Fsmt notifies the adversary that S sent a message to R. This reflects
the common view that encryption does not hide the fact that a message was sent, namely there is
no protection against traffic analysis. To capture security against traffic analysis, modify Fsmt so
that the adversary does not learn that a message was sent, or alternatively learns that a message
was sent but not the sender or receiver.

On realizing Fsmt . Protocols that UC-realize Fsmt can be constructed, based on public-key
encryption schemes that are semantically secure against chosen plaintext attacks, by using each
encryption key for encrypting only a single message, and authenticating the communication via

                                                    82
Fauth . That is, let E = (gen, enc, dec) be an encryption scheme for domain D of plaintexts. (Here
gen is the key generation algorithm, enc is the encryption algorithm, dec is the decryption algo-
rithm, and correct decryption is guaranteed for any plaintext in D.) Then, consider the following
protocol, denoted πE . When invoked with input (Send, sid, m) where m ∈ D and sid = (S, R, sid0 ),
πE first sends an initialization message to R, namely it invokes a session of idealFauth with in-
put (Send, sid00 ,init-smt), where sid00 = (S, R, sid0 ), and with PID S. Upon invocation with
subroutine-output (Sent, sid00 ,init-smt) and with identity (R, sid), πE runs algorithm gen, gets
the secret key sk and the public key pk, and sends (sid, pk) back to (sid, S), using Fauth in the same
way. Next, (sid, S) computes c = enc(pk, m), uses Fauth again to send c to (sid, R), and returns.
Finally, upon receipt of (sid, c), πE within R computes m = dec(sk, c), and outputs (Sent, sid, m).
    It can be verified that the above protocol UC-realizes Fsmt as long as the underlying encryption
scheme is semantically secure against chosen plaintext attacks. That is, given a domain D of
plaintexts, let lD be the “leakage function” that, given input x, returns ⊥ if x ∈ D and returns x
otherwise. Then:

                                                                                              lD
Claim 27 If E is semantically secure for domain D as in [gm84, g01] then πE UC realizes Fsmt
in the presence of non-adaptive corruptions.
                                                                               lD
    Furthermore, if E is non-committing (as in [cfgn96]) then πE UC-realizes Fsmt  with adaptive
corruptions. This holds even if data erasures are not trusted and the adversary sees all the past
internal states of the corrupted parties.

    As in the case of Fauth , it is possible to realize multiple sessions of Fsmt using a single session of a
more complex protocol, in a way that is considerably more efficient than running multiple indepen-
dent sessions of a protocol that realizes Fsmt . One way of doing this is to use the same encryption
scheme to encrypt all the messages sent to some party. Here however the encryption scheme should
have additional properties on top of being semantically secure. In [ckn03] it is shown that re-
playable chosen ciphertext security (RCCA) suffices for this purpose for the case of non-adaptive
party corruptions. In the case of adaptive corruptions stronger properties and constructions are
needed, see further discussion in [n02, chk05]. Using the UC with joint state mechanism [cr03],
one can still design and analyze protocols that employ multiple independent sessions of Fsmt , in
spite of the fact that all these sessions are realized by a single (or few) sessions of an encryption
protocol.

7.3.3   Synchronous communication

A common and convenient abstraction of communication networks is that of synchronous commu-
nication. Roughly speaking, here the computation proceeds in rounds, where in each round each
party receives all the messages that were sent to it in the previous round, and generates outgoing
messages for the next round.
    Synchronous variants of the UC framework are presented in [n03, hm04a, kmtz13]. Here we
provide an alternative way of capturing synchronous communication within the UC framework: We
show how synchronous communication can be captured within the general, unmodified framework
by having access to an ideal functionality Fsyn that provides the same guarantees as the ones that
are traditionally provided in synchronous networks. We first present Fsyn , and then discuss and
motivate some aspects of its design.
    Specifically, Fsyn is aimed at capturing a basic variant of the synchronous model, which provides
the following two guarantees:


                                                     83
Round awareness. All abstricipants have access to a common variable, representing the current
    round number. The variable is non-decreasing.

Synchronized message delivery. Each message sent by an uncorrupted party is guaranteed to
    arrive in the next round. In other words, all the messages sent to a party at round r − 1 are
    received before the party sends any round-r messages.

The second guarantee necessarily implies two other ones:

Guaranteed delivery. Each party is guaranteed to receive all messages that were sent to it by
    uncorrupted parties.

Authentic delivery. Each message sent by an uncorrupted party is guaranteed to arrive unmod-
    ified. Furthermore, the recipient knows the real sender identity of each message.

We note that the first requirement is not essential, i.e. there exist meaningful notions of synchronous
communication which do not imply common knowledge of the round number. Still, for simplicity
we choose to express the stronger variant.
   Finally, we stress that the order of activation of parties within a round is assumed to be under
adversarial control, thus the messages sent by the corrupted parties may depend on the messages
sent by the uncorrupted parties in the same round. This is often called the “rushing” model for
synchronous networks.

                                           Functionality Fsyn

   Fsyn expects its SID to be of the form sid = (P, sid0 ), where P is a list of ITIs (i.e., extended
   identities) among which synchronization is to be provided. It proceeds as follows.

      1. At the first activation, initialize a round counter r ← 1, a boolean sρP ← 0, and a set NPρ ← ∅
         for all ρ ≥ 0 and all P ∈ P. (sρP will hold whether P sent messages for round r, and NPρ will
         hold the list of messages sent in round ρ to party P . That is, NPρ = {(S, m)} where S ∈ P is
         the sender and m is a message.)
      2. Upon receiving input (Send, sid, M ) from party S ∈ P, where M is a set of pairs (R, m), do:
           (a) Set srS ← 1.
          (b) For each pair (R, m) in M , add (S, m) to NRr .
           (c) If all uncorrupted parties in P have already provided their messages for round r (i.e., if
               srP = 1 for all uncorrupted P ∈ P), then increment the round number: r ← r + 1.
          (d) Send (sid, S, M, r) to the adversary.
      3. Upon input (Receive, sid, r0 ) from R ∈ P, do: If r0 < r (i.e., r0 is a completed round) then
                                   0
         output (Received, sid, NRr ) to R. Else (i.e. r0 ≥ r) output (Round r incomplete) to P .
      4. Upon receiving a backdoor message (corrupt P ) for some P ∈ P, mark P as corrupted.

                  Figure 14: The synchronous communication functionality, Fsyn .


    Fsyn , presented in Figure 14, expects its SID to include a list P of parties among which syn-
chronization is to be provided. It also assumes that all parties in P are notified of the existence of
the present session of Fsyn by other means. (Said otherwise, we separate out the task of letting the


                                                      84
ITIs in P know about sid. Indeed, there can be a variety of mechanisms for this task, that make
sense in different settings, and that provide different liveness guarantees.)
    At the first activation, Fsyn initializes a round number r to 1. Next, Fsyn responds to two types
of inputs: Given input of the form (Send, sid, M ) from party S ∈ P, Fsyn interprets M as a list of
messages to be sent to other parties in P. The list µ is recorded together with the sender identity
and the current round number, and is also forwarded to the adversary. (This is the only point where
Fsyn yields control to the adversary. Notice that guaranteed delivery of messages is not harmed
since in its next activation, Fsyn will continue without waiting for the adversary’s response.) At
this point Fsyn also checks whether all uncorrupted parties have already sent their messages for
this round. If so, then it marks the current round as complete and increments the round number.
    Given an input (Receive, sid, r0 ) from a party R ∈ P, where r0 is a round number, Fsyn
proceeds as follows: If round r0 is completedm then Fsyn returns to R the messages sent to it in
round r0 . IF round r0 is not yet complete then Fsyn reports this fact to R.
    Upon receiving a (Corrupt, P ) from the adversary, for some P ∈ P, Fsyn marks P as cor-
rupted.26
    It is stressed that Fsyn does not deliver messages to a party until being explicitly requested by
the party to obtain the messages. This way, the functionality can make a set of values available
to multiple parties at the same time, thus guaranteeing both fairness and delivery of messages.
Indeed, a protocol that uses Fsyn can be guaranteed that as soon as all uncorrupted parties have
sent messages for a round, the round will complete and all sent messages will be available to their
recipients. Similarly, any protocol that realizes Fsyn must guarantee delivery of all messages sent
by uncorrupted parties.

Using Fsyn . To highlight the properties of Fsyn , let us sketch a typical use of Fsyn by a single
session of some protocol, π. Here all parties of a session of π use a single session of Fsyn . This
session can be invoked by any of the parties. Here we assume that all parties of the session of π
know the SID of the session of Fsyn in use. (Say, the session of Fsyn is derived from the SID of the
session of π, along with the PIDs of the parties.)
     Each party of a session of π first initializes a round counter to 1, and inputs to Fsyn a list µ of
first-round messages to be sent to the other parties of π. In each subsequent activation, the party
calls Fsyn with input (Receive, sid, r), where sid is typically derived from the current SID of π
and r is the current round number. In response, the party obtains the list of messages received in
this round, performs its local processing, increments the local round number, and calls Fsyn again
with input (Send, sid, µ) where µ contains the outgoing messages for this round. If Fsyn returns
(Round incomplete), this means that some parties have not completed this round yet. In this
case, π does nothing (thus returning the control to the environment).

Discussion.       We make the following additional observtions:

    • It can be seen that the message delivery pattern for such a protocol π is essentially the same
      as in a traditional synchronous network. Indeed, Fsyn guarantees that all parties actively
      participate in the communication in each round. That is, the round counter does not advance
  26
     The formulation of Fsyn in earlier versions of this work was slightly different: It explicitly sent a notification
message to the adversary at any advancement of the round number, and waited for a confirmation from the adversary
before advancing the round number. This allowed the adversary to block the advancement of the round number,
which meant that the functionality did not guarantee delivery of messages. This flaw is pointed out in [kmtz13],
where an different fix to the one used here is proposed.


                                                          85
      until all uncorrupted parties are activated at least once and send a (possibly empty) list of
      messages for that round. Furthermore, as soon as one uncorrupted party is able to obtain its
      incoming messages for some round, all uncorrupted parties are able to obtain their messages
      for that round.

   • Each session of Fsyn guarantees synchronous message delivery only within the context of the
     messages sent using that session. Delivery of messages sent in other ways (e.g., directly or via
     other sessions of Fsyn ) may be arbitrarily faster or arbitrarily slower. This allows capturing,
     in addition to the traditional model of a completely synchronous network where everyone
     is synchronized, also more general and realistic settings such as synchronous execution of a
     protocol within a larger asynchronous environment, or several protocol executions where each
     execution is internally synchronized but the executions are mutually asynchronous.

   • Even when using Fsyn , the inputs to the parties are received in an “asynchronous” way.
     That is, inputs may be received at any time and there is no guarantee that all or most
     inputs are received within the same round. Still, protocols that use Fsyn can deploy standard
     mechanisms for guaranteeing that the actual computation does not start until enough (or all)
     parties have inputs.

   • Including the set P of participating ITIs within the SID is aimed at capturing situations where
     the identities of all participants are known to the initiator in advance. Situations where the
     set of participants is not known a priori can be captured by letting parties join in as the
     computation proceeds, and having Fsyn update the set P accordingly.

   • To capture the case where the parties learn about the session of Fsyn from Fsyn itself, can
     add to Fsyn an initial stage where Fsyn notifies all (or some) of the parties in P that the
     execution started. Note that, with this initial stage in place, Fsyn may transfer control to the
     environment; still, as discussed above, delivery of all messages is still guaranteed as long as
     Fsyn does not wait for a response from the environment or the adversary.

On composing Fsyn -hybrid protocols. Within the present framework, where protocols are
bound to be subroutine-respecting, a session of Fsyn cannot be used as a subroutine by two different
protocols sessions (π, sid) and (π 0 , sid0 ), unless one session is a subroutine of the other. This means
that if we want to consider a (perhaps composite) protocol where the communication is synchronous
across all parties of a session of the protocol, then we must analyze the entire protocol as a single unit
and cannot meaningfully de-compose this protocol to smaller units that can be analyzed separately.
    Composability (or, rather, de-composability) can be regained via using either the Universal
Composition with Joint State (JUC) theorem or alternatively via the Generalized UC (GUC)
framework [cr03, cdpw07]. The JUC theorem provides a way (within the present framework) to
analyze individual sessions of some protocol π, where each session uses its own session of Fsyn , and
then argue that the overall behavior does not change even if all sessions of π use the same session
of Fsyn . (Here care must be taken to account for protocols that take different number of rounds to
complete.)

Relaxations. The reliability and authenticity guarantees provided within a single session of Fsyn
are quite strong: Once a round number advances, all the messages to be delivered to the parties
at this round are fixed, and are guaranteed to be delivered upon request. One may relax this
“timeliness” guarantee as follows. Fsyn may only guarantee that messages are delivered within a


                                                   86
given number, δ, of rounds from the time they are generated. The bound δ may be either known
in advance or alternatively unknown and determined dynamically (e.g., specified by the adversary
when the message is sent). The case of known delay δ corresponds to the “timing model” of
[dns98, g02, lpt04]. The case of unknown delay corresponds to the non-blocking asynchronous
communication model where message are guaranteed to be delivered, but with unknown delay (see,
e.g., [bcg93, cr93]).

7.4   Non-concurrent Security
One of the main features of the UC framework is that it guarantees security even when protocol
sessions are running concurrently in an adversarially controlled manner. Still, sometimes it may be
useful to capture within the UC framework also security properties that are not necessarily preserved
under concurrent composition, and are thus realizable by simpler protocols or with milder setup
assumptions.
    This section provides a way to express such “non-concurrent” security properties of protocols
within the present framework. That is, we present a general methodology for writing protocols so
that no attacks against the protocol, that involve executing other protocols concurrently with the
analyzed protocol, will be expressible in the model.
    Recall that the main difference between the UC model and models that guarantee only non-
concurrent security is that in the UC model the environment expected to be able to interact with
the adversary at any point in the computation, whereas in non-concurrent models the environment
receives information from the adversary only once, at the end of the computation. The idea is to
write protocols in a way that essentially forces the UC environment to behave as if it runs in a
non-concurrent model.
    In fact, we demonstrate how to transform any given protocol π into a protocol πnc , such that
πnc provides essentially the same functionality as π, except that πnc forces the enviroment to
behave non-concurrently. The idea is to replace all interaction between π and the adversary for
interaction between π and a special ideal functionality, called Fnc , that mimics the adversary for
π, and interacts with the actual adversary only in a very limited way.
    That is, let πnc , the non-concurrent version of π, be identical to π except that: (a) upon initial
invocation, each party of πnc calls Fnc with a (init,s) input where s is the same SID as the local
one (b) any external-write, made by any ITI in the extended session of πnc to the backdoor tape of
the adversary, is replaced be an input to Fnc ; similarly, subroutine-outputs coming from Fnc are
treated like messages coming on the backdoor tape. Incoming messages from the actual backdoor
tape are ignored. (Formally, these transformations can be implemented via appropriate shell code.)
    Functionality Fnc is presented in Figure 15. It expects to be first ativated by an input (init,s).
It then notifies the adversary of the SID s and waits to receive a code Â on its backdoor tape.
(Â represents an adversary in a non-concurrent model). Fnc then behaves in the same way that
adversary Â would in the non-concurrent security model. That is, Fnc runs Â, feeds it with all the
inputs messages (these messages come from the parties of this extended session of π), and follows
its instructions with respect to sending information back to the parties. (Of course, Â sends this
information as subroutine outputs rather than backdoor messages.) In addition, Fnc verifies that Â
stays within the allowed boundaries of the model, namely that it only delivers backdoor messages
to existing ITIs that are parties or subsidiaries of the session s of the calling protocol. (For this
purpose, we assume that π is subroutine-exposing.) As soon as Â generates an output v to the
environment, Fnc sends v to the external adversary and halts.
    Notice that the above formalism applies also to protocols that assume some idealized communi-

                                                  87
                                           Functionality Fnc

      1. init inputs are ignored, except for the inital one, Upon initial invocation (due to an (init,s)
         input from some party, Report s to the adversary. (Subsequent init,s) input are ignored.)
      2. When receiving message (Start,Â) from the adversary, where Â is the code of an ITM
         (representing an adversary), invoke Â and change state to running.
      3. When receiving input (Backdoor,m) from party (i.e., ITI) P , verify that the state is running,
         and that P is a member of session s of π. If verification succeeds then activate Â with backdoor
         message m from P . Then:
           (a) If Â instructs to deliver a backdoor message m0 to party P 0 then verify that P 0 is a
               member of session s of π. If so, then output (Backdoor,m0 ) to P 0 .
          (b) If Â generates an output v to the environment, then write v to the backdoor tape of the
              external adversary and halt.

                 Figure 15: The non-concurrent communication functionality, Fnc .



cation model, say by using an ideal functionality that represents that model (e.g., Fauth or Fsyn ).
Indeed, when applied to protocols that use an ideal functionality such as Fauth or Fsyn , the above
generic transformation would modify the ideal functionality (e.g. Fauth or Fsyn ) so that it will
interact with Fnc instead of interacting with the adversary.

Equivalence with the definition of [c00]. Recall the security definition of [c00], that guar-
antees that security is preserved under non-concurrent composition of protocols. (See discussion in
Section 1.1.) More specifically, recall that the notion of [c00] is essentially the same as UC security
with two main exceptions: first, there the model of execution is synchronous, which is analogous
to the use of Fsyn . Second, there the environment E and the adversary A are prohibited from
sending inputs and outputs to each other from the moment where the first activation of a party of
the protocol until the last activation of a party of the protocol.
     Here we wish to concentrate on the second difference. We thus provide an alternative formula-
tion of the [c00] notion, within the current framework. Say that an environment is non-concurrent
if it does not provide any input to the adversary other than the input provided to the adversary at
its first activation; furthermore, it ignores all outputs from the adversary other than the first one.
Then:

Definition 28 Let π and φ be PPT protocols and let ξ be a PPT predicate. We say that π ξ-
NC-emulates φ if for any PPT adversary A there exists a PPT adversary S such that for any
non-concurrent, balanced, ξ-identity-bounded PPT environment E, we have execφ,S,E ≈ execπ,A,E .

    We argue (informally) that NC-emulation captures the essence of the notion of [c00]. In par-
ticular, we conjecture that the existing security analysis of known protocols (e.g., the protocol of
[gmw87], see [g04]) for realizing a general class of ideal functionalities with any number of faults,
assuming authenticated communication as the only set-up assumption, is essentially tantamount
to demonstrating that these protocols NC-emulate the corresponding ideal functionalities.
    With this perspective in mind, we formalize the equivalence between the security notion of [c00]
and UC-emulation in the presence of Fnc , via the following proposition’:


                                                     88
Proposition 29 Let π and φ be PPT protocols and let ξ be a PPT predicate. Then πnc ξ-UC-
emulates φ if and only if π ξ-NC-emulates φ.

    Notice that Proposition 29, together with the UC theorem, provide an alternative (albeit some-
what indirect) formulation of the non-concurrent composition theorem of [c00]. In fact, the present
result is significantly more general, since it applies also to reactive protocols with multiple rounds
of inputs and outputs.
Proof: We first show that if πnc ξ-UC-emulates φ then π ξ-NC-emulates φ. Let A be an adversary
(geared towards interacting with π in a non-concurrent environment). We need to show a simulator
SA such that execπ,A,E ≈ execφ,SA ,E for any non-concurrent environment E.
    We construct SA in two steps. First, we consider the adversary Â which is the version of A
geared towards working with πnc . Specifically, upon initial activation, Â forwards the code A to
Fnc which is part of πn c). From then on, Â behaves like the dummy adversary. Observe that, as
long as E is non-concurrent, the ensembles execπ,A,E and execπnc ,Â,E are identical. We now let
SA be the simulator for πnc and Â, that is SA is such that execπnc ,Â,E ≈ execφ,SA ,E for all E.
This direction follows.
     It remains to show that if π ξ-NC-emulates φ then πnc ξ-UC-emulates φ. In fact, it suffices to
demonstrate that πnc UC-emulates φ with respect to the dummy adversary. Furthermore, we will
use Claim 14 and only show that πnc UC-emulates φ with respect to specialized simulators (i.e.,
when the simulator depends on the environment).
     Let E be a general UC environment (that expects to interact with πnc and the dummy adver-
sary). Let Â denote the adversary code that is given by E in response to the firs backdoor message
from Fnc (forwarded by the dummy adversary). Note that E generates this code before obtaining
any output from any party.
     Next, consider the following environment Enc Enc runs E. When E generates an input to a
main party of πnc , Enc forwards this inputs unchanged. Similarly, outputs from the main parties
of πn c are forwarded to E unchanged. Inputs from E to the adversary are ignored, except for the
first input that is directed at the backdoor tape of Fnc ; this input (which contains the code Â) is
forwarded by Enc to its adversary. Once Enc receives an output value from its adversary, it hands
this value to E, outputs whatever E outputs, and halts.
     Clearly, Enc is a non-concurrent environment. Therefore, since π ξ-NC-emulates φ, there ex-
ists a simulator S such that execπ,Â,Enc ≈ execφ,S,Enc . However, execπ,Â,Enc is identical to
execπnc ,D,E , since the view of E is the same in the two executions. Similarly, consider the simula-
tor Ŝ that is identical to S except that Ŝ ignores all inputs from its environment other than the first
one, and withholds all outputs to the environment other than the very last one before halting. We
then have that execφ,S,Enc is distributed identically to execφ,Ŝ,E ; Indeed, the view of E is the same
in the two executions. We conclude that execπnc ,D,E = execπ,Â,Enc ≈ execφ,S,Enc = execφ,Ŝ,E ,
namely π ξnc -UC-emulates φ.                                                                           

Modeling partial concurrency. Finally we remark that the methodology presented here can
be extended to analyzing “partial concurrency” of protocols, where “partial concurrency” can come
in multiple flavors. For instance, one can model bounded concurrency by allowing Fnc only limited
number of interactions with the external adversary, or alternatively only a limited number of bits
sent to (or received from) the external adversary. Alternatively, one can consider composite proto-
cols where some components cannot be run concurrently to each other, but concurrent executions
of other components (or of sub-components within a component) is allowed.


                                                   89
Acknowledgments
Much of the motivation for undertaking this project, and many of the ideas that appear here, come
from studying secure key-exchange protocols together with Hugo Krawczyk. I thank him for this
long, fruitful, and enjoyable collaboration. I am also grateful to Oded Goldreich who, as usual, gave
me both essential moral support and invaluable technical, presentational, and practical advice. In
particular, Oded’s dedicated advice greatly improved (and vastly reshaped) the presentation of this
paper.
    Many thanks also to the many people with whom I have interacted over the years on definitions
of security and secure composition. A very partial list includes Martin Abadi, Michael Backes,
Christian Badertscher, Mihir Bellare, Ivan Damgaard, Marc Fischlin, Shafi Goldwasser, Rosario
Gennaro, Shai Halevi, Julia Hesse, Dennis Hofheinz, Yuval Ishai, Ralf Küsters, Eyal Kushilevitz,
Yehuda Lindell, Phil MacKenzie, Tal Malkin, Cathy Meadows, Silvio Micali, Daniele Micciancio,
Moni Naor, Rafi Ostrovsky, Rafael Pass, Birgit Pfitzmann, Tal Rabin, Charlie Rackoff, Phil Rog-
away, Victor Shoup, Alley Stoughton, Paul Syverson, Björn Tackmann, Rita Vald, Mayank Varia,
Michael Waidner, Vassilis Zikas. In particular, it was Daniele who proposed to keep the basic
framework minimal and model subsequent abstractions as ideal functionalities within the basic
model.
    I am also extremely grateful to the dedicated anonymous referee who has meticulously read the
paper over and over, pointing out scores of bugs - small and large.


References
[ag97] M. Abadi and A. D. Gordon. A calculus for cryptographic protocols: The spi calculus. In
      4th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, 1997, pp.36-47. Fuller
      version available at http://www.research.digital.com/SRC/ abadi.

[ar00] M. Abadi and P. Rogaway. Reconciling Two Views of Cryptography (The Computational
      Soundness of Formal Encryption). J. Cryptology 15(2): 103-127 (2002). Preliminary version
      at International Conference on Theoretical Computer Science IFIP TCS 2000, LNCS, 2000.
      On-line version at http://pa.bell-labs.com/ abadi/.

[af04] M. Abe and S. Fehr. Adaptively Secure Feldman VSS and Applications to Universally-
       Composable Threshold Cryptography. Crypto ’04, 2004.

[a04] J. Almansa. The Full Abstraction of the UC Framework. BRICS, Technical Report RS-04-15
      University of Aarhus, Denmark, August 2004. Also available at eprint.iacr.org/2005/019.

[bpw03] M. Backes, B. Pfitzmann, and M. Waidner. A composable cryptographic library with
      nested operations. In 10th ACM conference on computer and communications security
      (CCS), 2003. Extended version at the eprint archive, http://eprint.iacr.org/2003/015/.

[bpw04] M. Backes, B. Pfitzmann, and M. Waidner. A general composition theorem for secure
      reactive systems. In 1st Theory of Cryptography Conference (TCC), LNCS 2951 pp. 336–
      354, Feb. 2004.

[bpw07] M. Backes, B. Pfitzmann, and M. Waidner. The reactive simulatability (RSIM) framework
      for asynchronous systems. Inf. Comput. 205(12): 1685-1720 (2007)



                                                 90
[bpw07] M. Backes, B. Pfitzmann, and M. Waidner. The reactive simulatability (RSIM) framework
      for asynchronous systems. Inf. Comput. 205(12): 1685-1720 (2007)

[b01] B. . How to go Beyond the Black-Box Simulation Barrier. In 42nd FOCS, pp. 106–115,
      2001.

[b+ 11] B. Barak, R. Canetti, Y. Lindell, R. Pass and T. Rabin. Secure Computation Without
       Authentication. J. Cryptology 24(4): 720-760 (2011)

[bcnp04] B. Barak, R. Canetti, J. B. Nielsen, R. Pass. Universally Composable Protocols with
      Relaxed Set-Up Assumptions. 36th FOCS, pp. 186–195. 2004.

[bggl04] B. Barak, O. Goldreich, S. Goldwasser and Y. Lindell. Resettably-Sound Zero-Knowledge
      and its Applications. 42nd FOCS, pp. 116-125, 2001.

[blr04] B. Barak, Y. Lindell and T. Rabin. Protocol Initialization for the Framework of Universal
      Composability. Eprint archive. eprint.iacr.org/2004/006.

[bs05] B. Barak and A. Sahai, How To Play Almost Any Mental Game Over the Net - Concurrent
       Composition via Super-Polynomial Simulation. FOCS, 2005.

[b91] D. Beaver. Secure Multi-party Protocols and Zero-Knowledge Proof Systems Tolerating a
      Faulty Minority. J. Cryptology, (1991) 4: 75-122.

[b96] D. Beaver. Adaptive Zero-Knowledge and Computational Equivocation. 28th Symposium
      on Theory of Computing (STOC), ACM, 1996.

[b97] D. Beaver. Plug and play encryption. CRYPTO 97, 1997.

[bh92] D. Beaver and S. Haber. Cryptographic protocols provably secure against dynamic adver-
      saries. In Eurocrypt ’92, LNCS No. 658, 1992, pages 307–323.

[bck98] M. Bellare, R. Canetti and H. Krawczyk. A modular approach to the design and analysis
      of authentication and key-exchange protocols. 30th Symposium on Theory of Computing
      (STOC), ACM, 1998.

[bdpr98] M. Bellare, A. Desai, D. Pointcheval and P. Rogaway. Relations among notions of security
      for public-key encryption schemes. CRYPTO ’98, 1998, pp. 26-40.

[br93] M. Bellare and P. Rogaway. Entity authentication and key distribution. CRYPTO’93,
       LNCS. 773, pp. 232-249, 1994. (Full version from the authors or from http://
       www-cse.ucsd.edu/users/mihir.)

[bcg93] M. Ben-Or, R. Canetti and O. Goldreich. Asynchronous Secure Computations. 25th Sym-
      posium on Theory of Computing (STOC), ACM, 1993, pp. 52-61.

[bgw88] M. Ben-Or, S. Goldwasser and A. Wigderson. Completeness Theorems for Non-
     Cryptographic Fault-Tolerant Distributed Computation. 20th Symposium on Theory of
     Computing (STOC), ACM, 1988, pp. 1-10.

[bkr94] M. Ben-Or, B. Kelmer and T. Rabin. Asynchronous Secure Computations with Optimal
      Resilience. 13th PODC, 1994, pp. 183-192.


                                               91
[bm04] M. Ben-Or, D. Mayers. General Security Definition and Composability for Quantum &
      Classical Protocols. arXiv archive, http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0409062.

[bs97] E. Biham, A. Shamir. Differential Fault Analysis of Secret Key Cryptosystems. CRYPTO
       ’97, pp. 513–525. 1997.

[B+ 91] R. Bird, I. S. Gopal, A. Herzberg, P. A. Janson, S. Kutten, R. Molva, M. Yung. Systematic
       Design of Two-Party Authentication Protocols. CRYPTO 1991: 44-61

[bch12] N. Bitansky, R. Canetti, S. Halevi. Leakage-Tolerant Interactive Protocols. TCC 2012:
      266-284

[b82] M. Blum. Coin flipping by telephone. IEEE Spring COMPCOM, pp. 133-137, Feb. 1982.

[bdl97] D. Boneh, R. A. DeMillo, R. J. Lipton. On the Importance of Checking Cryptographic
      Protocols for Faults (Extended Abstract). Eurocrypt ’97, pp. 37–51. 1997.

[bcc88] G. Brassard, D. Chaum and C. Crépeau. Minimum Disclosure Proofs of Knowledge. JCSS,
      Vol. 37, No. 2, pages 156–189, 1988.

[ban90] M. Burrows, M. Abadi and R. Needham. A logic for authentication. DEC Systems Re-
      search Center Technical Report 39, February 1990. Earlier versions in the Second Conference
      on Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about Knowledge, 1988, and the Twelfth ACM Sym-
      posium on Operating Systems Principles, 1989.

[c95] R. Canetti. Studies in Secure Multi-party Computation and Applications.Ph.D. Thesis,
      Weizmann Institute, Israel, 1995.

[c98] R. Canetti. Security and composition of multi-party               cryptographic   protocols.
      ftp://theory.lcs.mit.edu/pub/tcryptol/98-18.ps, 1998.

[c00] R. Canetti. Security and composition of multi-party cryptographic protocols. Journal of
      Cryptology, Vol. 13, No. 1, winter 2000.

[c00a] R. Canetti. Universally composable security: A new paradigm for cryptographic protocols.
      IACR ePrint Archive, Report 2000/067 and ECCC report TR01-016.

[c01] R. Canetti. Universally composable security: A new paradigm for cryptographic protocols.
      FOCS 2001: 136-145

[c04] R. Canetti. Universally Composable Signature, Certification, and Authentication.
      17th Computer Security Foundations Workshop (CSFW), 2004. Long version at
      eprint.iacr.org/2003/239.

[c05] R. Canetti. Universally composable security: A new paradigm for cryptographic protocols.
      Version of December 2005. Available at http://eccc.uni-trier.de/eccc-reports/2001/TR01-
      016.

[c06] R. Canetti. Security and composition of cryptographic protocols: A tutorial. SIGACT News,
      Vol. 37, Nos. 3 & 4, 2006. Available also at the Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2006/465.

[c07] R. Canetti. Obtaining Universally Composable Security: Towards the Bare Bones of Trust.
      ASIACRYPT 2007, pp. 88-112.

                                               92
[c08] R. Canetti. Composable Formal Security Analysis: Juggling Soundness, Simplicity and
      Efficiency. ICALP (2) 2008: 1-13

[c13] R. Canetti. Security and composition of cryptographic protocols. Chapter in Secure Multi-
      party Computation, ed. Prabhakaran and Sahai. IOS Press, 2013.

[c+11] R. Canetti, S. Chari, S. Halevi, B. Pfitzmann, A. Roy, M. Steiner, W. Venema. Composable
      Security Analysis of OS Services. ACNS 2011: 431-448

[ccl15] R. Canetti, A. Cohen, Y. Lindell. A Simpler Variant of Universally Composable Security
      for Standard Multiparty Computation. Crypto, 2015. See also IACR Cryptology ePrint
      Archive 2014: 553.

[c+05] R. Canetti, L. Cheung, D. Kaynar, M. Liskov, N. Lynch, O. Pereira, and R. Segala. Using
      Probabilistic I/O Automata to Analyze an Oblivious Transfer Protocol. MIT Technical
      Report MIT-LCS-TR-1001, August 2005.

[cdpw07] R. Canetti, Y. Dodis, R. Pass and S. Walfish. Universally Composable Security with
     Pre-Existing Setup. 4th theory of Cryptology Conference (TCC), 2007.

[cfgn96] R. Canetti, U. Feige, O. Goldreich and M. Naor. Adaptively Secure Computation. 28th
      Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), ACM, 1996. Fuller version in MIT-LCS-TR
      682, 1996.

[cf01] R. Canetti and M. Fischlin. Universally Composable Commitments. Crypto ’01, 2001.

[cg96] R. Canetti and R. Gennaro. Incoercible multi-party computation. 37th Symp. on Founda-
      tions of Computer Science (FOCS), IEEE, 1996.

[cgp15] R. Canetti, S. Goldwasser, O. Poburinnaya. Adaptively Secure Two-Party Computation
      from Indistinguishability Obfuscation. TCC (2) 2015: 557-585. See also IACR Eprint archive
      2014: 845.

[chk05] R. Canetti, S. Halevi and J, Katz. Adaptively Secure Non-Interactive Public-Key Encryp-
      tion. 2nd theory of Cryptology Conference (TCC), 2005.

[ch11] R. Canetti and J. Herzog. Universally Composable Symbolic Analysis of Cryptographic
      Protocols (The case of encryption-based mutual authentication and key exchange). J. Cryp-
      tology 24(1): 83-147 (2011).

[chmv17] R. Canetti, K. Hogan, A. Malhotra and M. Varia. Universally Composable Network
      Time. Computer Security Foundations (CSF) 2017.

[cjs14] R. Canetti, A. Jain, A. Scafuro. Practical UC security with a Global Random Oracle. ACM
       Conference on Computer and Communications Security 2014: 597-608

[ck01] R. Canetti and H. Krawczyk. Analysis of key exchange protocols and their use for building
      secure channels. Eurocrypt ’01, 2001. Extended version at http://eprint.iacr.org/2001/040.

[ck02] R. Canetti and H. Krawczyk. Universally Composable Key Exchange and Secure Chan-
      nels . In Eurocrypt ’02, pages 337–351, 2002. LNCS No. 2332. Extended version at
      http://eprint.iacr.org/2002/059.


                                              93
[ckn03] R. Canetti, H. Krawczyk, and J. Nielsen. Relaxing Chosen Ciphertext Security
      of Encryption Schemes. Crypto ’03, 2003. Extended version at the eprint archive,
      eprint.iacr.org/2003/174.

[clos02] R. Canetti, Y. Lindell, R. Ostrovsky, A. Sahai. Universally composable two-party and
      multi-party secure computation. 34th STOC, pp. 494–503, 2002.

[cr93] R. Canetti and T. Rabin. Optimal Asynchronous Byzantine Agreement. 25th STOC, 1993,
      pp. 42-51.

[cr03] R. Canetti and T. Rabin. Universal Composition with Joint State. Crypto’03, 2003.

[csv16] R. Canetti, D. Shahaf, M. Vald. Composable Authentication with Global PKI. PKC 2016.
      See also IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2014: 432.

[cv12] R. Canetti, M. Vald. Universally Composable Security with Local Adversaries. SCN 2012:
      281-301. See also IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2012: 117.

[cm89] B. Chor, L. Moscovici. Solvability in Asynchronous Environments (Extended Abstract).
      FOCS 1989: 422-427

[cn99] B. Chor, L. Nelson. Solvability in Asynchronous Environments II: Finite Interactive Tasks.
      SIAM J. Comput. 29(2): 351-377 (1999)

[cjrr99] S. Chari, C. S. Jutla, J. R. Rao, P. Rohatgi. Towards Sound Approaches to Counteract
      Power-Analysis Attacks. CRYPTO ’99, pp. 398–412. 1999.

[d05] A. Datta, Security Analysis of Network Protocols: Compositional Reasoning and
      Complexity-theoretic Foundations. PhD Thesis, Computer Science Department, Stanford
      University, September 2005.

[ddmrs06] A. Datta, A. Derek, J. C. Mitchell, A. Ramanathan and A. Scedrov. Games and the
      Impossibility of Realizable Ideal Functionality. 3rd theory of Cryptology Conference (TCC),
      2006.

[dkmr05] A. Datta, R. Küsters, J. C. Mitchell and A. Ramanathan. On the Relationships between
     Notions of Simulation-based Security. 2nd theory of Cryptology Conference (TCC), 2005.

[dio98] G. Di Crescenzo, Y. Ishai and R. Ostrovsky. Non-interactive and non-malleable commit-
       ment. 30th STOC, 1998, pp. 141-150.

[dm00] Y. Dodis and S. Micali. Secure Computation. CRYPTO ’00, 2000.

[dksw09] Y. Dodis, J. Katz, A. D. Smith, S. Walfish. Composability and On-Line Deniability of
      Authentication. TCC 2009: 146-162

[ddn00] D. Dolev. C. Dwork and M. Naor. Non-malleable cryptography. SIAM. J. Computing,
      Vol. 30, No. 2, 2000, pp. 391-437. Preliminary version in 23rd Symposium on Theory of
      Computing (STOC), ACM, 1991.

[dy83] D. Dolev and A. Yao. On the security of public-key protocols. IEEE Transactions on Infor-
      mation Theory, 2(29), 1983.


                                               94
[dlms04] N. Durgin, P. Lincoln, J. Mitchell, and A. Scedrov. Multiset rewriting and the complexity
      of bounded security protocols. Journal of Computer Security, 12(2):247–311, 2004.

[dns98] C. Dwork, M. Naor, and A. Sahai. Concurrent Zero-Knowledge. In 30th STOC, pages
      409–418, 1998.

[egl85] S. Even, O. Goldreich and A. Lempel, A randomized protocol for signing contracts, CACM,
      vol. 28, No. 6, 1985, pp. 637-647.

[f91] U. Feige. Ph.D. thesis, Weizmann Institute of Science, 1991.

[ff00] M. Fischlin and R. Fischlin, Efficient non-malleable commitment schemes, CRYPTO ’00,
       LNCS 1880, 2000, pp. 413-428.

[gm00] J. Garay and P. MacKenzie, Concurrent Oblivious Transfer, 41st FOCS, 2000.

[glmmr04] R. Gennaro, A. Lysyanskaya, T. Malkin, S. Micali and T. Rabin. Tamper Proof Secu-
     rity: Theoretical Foundations for Security Against Hardware Tampering. Theory of Cryp-
     tography Conference (TCC), LNCS 2951. 2004.

[grr98] R. Gennaro, M. Rabin and T Rabin. Simplified VSS and Fast-track Multiparty Compu-
      tations with Applications to Threshold Cryptography, 17th PODC, 1998, pp. 101-112.

[g01] O. Goldreich. Foundations of Cryptography. Cambridge Press, Vol 1 (2001).

[g02] O. Goldreich. Concurrent Zero-Knowledge With Timing, Revisited. 34th STOC, 2002.

[g04] O. Goldreich. Foundations of Cryptography. Cambridge Press, Vol 2 (2004).

[g08] O. Goldreich. Computational complexity - a conceptual perspective. Cambridge University
      Press 2008, ISBN 978-0-521-88473-0.

[gk88] O. Goldreich and A. Kahan. How to Construct Constant-Round Zero-Knowledge Proof
      Systems for NP. Jour. of Cryptology, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 167–189, 1996.

[gk89] O. Goldreich and H. Krawczyk. On the Composition of Zero-Knowledge Proof Systems.
      SIAM. J. Computing, Vol. 25, No. 1, 1996.

[gl01] O. Goldreich and Y. Lindell. Session-key generation using human passwords only. CRYPTO
       ’01, 2001.

[gmw87] O. Goldreich, S. Micali and A. Wigderson. How to Play any Mental Game. 19th Sympo-
     sium on Theory of Computing (STOC), ACM, 1987, pp. 218-229.

[go94] O. Goldreich and Y. Oren. Definitions and properties of Zero-Knowledge proof systems.
      Journal of Cryptology, Vol. 7, No. 1, 1994, pp. 1–32. Preliminary version by Y. Oren in 28th
      Symp. on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS), IEEE, 1987.

[gl90] S. Goldwasser, and L. Levin. Fair Computation of General Functions in Presence of Immoral
       Majority. CRYPTO ’90, LNCS 537, 1990.

[gm84] S. Goldwasser and S. Micali. Probabilistic encryption. JCSS, Vol. 28, No 2, April 1984, pp.
      270-299.


                                               95
[gmra89] S. Goldwasser, S. Micali and C. Rackoff. The Knowledge Complexity of Interactive Proof
      Systems. SIAM Journal on Comput., Vol. 18, No. 1, 1989, pp. 186-208.

[g11] V. Goyal. Positive Results for Concurrently Secure Computation in the Plain Model. FOCS
      2012: 41-50

[gos12] J. Groth, R. Ostrovsky, A. Sahai, “ New Techniques for Noninteractive Zero-Knowledge,”
      J. ACM 59(3): 11:1-11:35 (2012)

[hm00] M. Hirt and U. Maurer. Complete characterization of adversaries tolerable in secure multi-
      party computation. Journal of Cryptology, Vol 13, No. 1, 2000, pp. 31-60. Preliminary
      version in 16th Symp. on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC), ACM, 1997, pp.
      25–34.

[h85] C. A. R. Hoare. Communicating Sequential Processes. International Series in Computer
      Science, Prentice Hall, 1985.

[hms03] D. Hofheinz and J. Müler-Quade and R. Steinwandt. Initiator-Resilient Universally
      Composable Key Exchange. ESORICS, 2003. Extended version at the eprint archive,
      eprint.iacr.org/2003/063.

[hm04a] D. Hofheinz and J. Müller-Quade. A Synchronous Model for Multi-Party Computation and
      the Incompleteness of Oblivious Transfer. Eprint archive, http:/eprint.iacr.org/2004/016,
      2004.

[hmu09] D. Hofheinz, J. Müller-Quade and D. Unruh. Polynomial run-time and Composability.
      IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive (IACR) 2009:23 (2009)

[hs11] D. Hofheinz, V. Shoup. GNUC: A New Universal Composability Framework. J. Cryptology
       28(3): 423-508 (2015)

[hu05] D. Hofheinz and D. Unruh. Comparing Two Notions of Simulatability. 2nd theory of Cryp-
      tology Conference (TCC), pp. 86-103, 2005.

[k74] G. Kahn. The Semantics of Simple Language for Parallel Programming. IFIP Congress 1974:
      471-475

[kmtz13] J. Katz, U. Maurer, B. Tackmann, V. Zikas. Universally Composable Synchronous Com-
      putation. Theory of Cryptology Conference (TCC) 2013: 477-498

[kmm94] R. Kemmerer, C. Meadows and J. Millen. Three systems for cryptographic protocol
     analysis. J. Cryptology, 7(2):79-130, 1994.

[k96] P. C. Kocher. Timing Attacks on Implementations of Diffie-Hellman, RSA, DSS, and Other
      Systems. CRYPTO ’96, pp. 104–113. 1996.

[k06] R. Küsters. Simulation-Based Security with Inexhaustible Interactive Turing Machines.
      CSFW 2006, pp. 309-320.

[kt13] R. Küsters, M. Tüngerthal. The IITM Model: a Simple and Expressive Model for Universal
      Composability. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2013: 25 (2013)



                                               96
[l03] Y. Lindell. General Composition and Universal Composability in Secure Multi-Party Com-
      putation. 43rd FOCS, pp. 394–403. 2003.

[llr02] Y. Lindell, A. Lysyanskaya and T. Rabin. On the composition of authenticated Byzantine
      agreement. 34th STOC, 2002.

[lpt04] Y. Lindell, M. Prabhakaran, Y. Tauman. Concurrent General Composition of Secure Pro-
      tocols in the Timing Model. Manuscript, 2004.

[lmms98] P. Lincoln, J. Mitchell, M. Mitchell, A. Scedrov. A Probabilistic Poly-time Framework
      for Protocol Analysis. 5th ACM Conf. on Computer and Communication Security, 1998,
      pp. 112-121.

[lmms99] P. Lincoln, J. Mitchell, M. Mitchell, A. Scedrov. Probabilistic Polynomial-time
      equivalence and security analysis. Formal Methods Workshop, 1999. Available at
      ftp://theory.stanford.edu/pub/jcm/papers/fm-99.ps.

[ly96] N. Lynch. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufman, San Francisco, 1996.

[lsv03] N. Lynch, R. Segala and F. Vaandrager. Compositionality for Probabilistic Automata. 14th
       CONCUR, LNCS vol. 2761, pages 208-221, 2003. Fuller version appears in MIT Technical
       Report MIT-LCS-TR-907.

[mms03] P. Mateus, J. C. Mitchell and A. Scedrov. Composition of Cryptographic Protocols in a
      Probabilistic Polynomial-Time Process Calculus. CONCUR, pp. 323-345. 2003.

[mr11] U. Maurer, R. Renner. Abstract Cryptography. Innovations in Computer Science 2011:
      1-21

[mpr06] S. Micali, R. Pass, A. Rosen. Input-Indistinguishable Computation. FOCS 2006, pp. 367-
      378.

[mr04] S. Micali and L. Reyzin. Physically Observable Cryptography. 1st Theory of Cryptography
      Conference (TCC), LNCS 2951, 2004.

[mr91] S. Micali and P. Rogaway. Secure Computation. unpublished manuscript, 1992. Preliminary
      version in CRYPTO ’91, LNCS 576, 1991.

[mt13] D. Micciancio and S. Tessaro. An equational approach to secure multi-party computation.
      ITCS 2013: 355-372

[mw04] D. Micciancio and B. Warinschi. Soundness of formal encryption in the presence of active
      adversaries. In the 1st Theory of Cryptography Conference (TCC), LNCS 2951, pp. 133–151.
      2004.

[m89] R. Milner. Communication and Concurrency. Prentice Hall, 1989.

[m99] R. Milner. Communicating and Mobile Systems: the Pi-Calculus. Cambridge University
      Press, 1999.

[mms98] J. Mitchell, M. Mitchell, A. Schedrov. A Linguistic Characterization of Bounded Oracle
      Computation and Probabilistic Polynomial Time. 39th FOCS, 1998, pp. 725-734.


                                              97
[ny90] M. Naor and M. Yung. Public key cryptosystems provably secure against chosen ciphertext
      attacks”. 22nd STOC, 427-437, 1990.

[n02] J. B. Nielsen. Separating Random Oracle Proofs from Complexity Theoretic Proofs: The
      Non-committing Encryption Case. CRYPTO, pp. 111–126. 2002.

[n03] J. B. Nielsen. On Protocol Security in the Cryptographic Model. PhD thesis, Aarhus Uni-
      versity, 2003.

[p04] R. Pass. Bounded-concurrent secure multi-party computation with a dishonest majority.
      36th STOC, pp. 232–241. 2004.

[p06] R. Pass. A Precise Computational Approach to Knowledge. PhD Thesis, MIT. 2006.

[pr03] R. Pass, A. Rosen. Bounded-Concurrent Secure Two-Party Computation in a Constant
       Number of Rounds. 44th FOCS, 2003

[pr05a] R. Pass, A. Rosen. New and improved constructions of non-malleable cryptographic pro-
      tocols. STOC, pp. 533-542, 2005.

[pw94] B. Pfitzmann and M. Waidner. A general framework for formal notions of secure sys-
      tems. Hildesheimer Informatik-Berichte 11/94, Universitat Hildesheim, 1994. Available at
      http://www.semper.org/sirene/lit.

[psw00] B. Pfitzmann, M. Schunter and M. Waidner. Secure Reactive Systems. IBM Research
      Report RZ 3206 (#93252), IBM Research, Zurich, May 2000.

[psw00a] B. Pfitzmann, M. Schunter and M. Waidner. Provably Secure Certified Mail. IBM Re-
      search Report RZ 3207 (#93253), IBM Research, Zurich, August 2000.

[pw00] B. Pfitzmann and M. Waidner. Composition and integrity preservation of secure reactive
      systems. 7th ACM Conf. on Computer and Communication Security, 2000, pp. 245-254.

[pw01] B. Pfitzmann and M. Waidner. A model for asynchronous reactive systems and its applica-
      tion to secure message transmission. IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, May 2001.
      Preliminary version in http://eprint.iacr.org/2000/066 and IBM Research Report RZ 3304
      (#93350), IBM Research, Zurich, December 2000.

[ps04] M. Prabhakaran, A. Sahai. New notions of security: achieving universal composability with-
       out trusted setup. 36th STOC, pp. 242–251. 2004.

[r81] M. Rabin. How to exchange secrets by oblivious transfer. Tech. Memo TR-81, Aiken Com-
      putation Laboratory, Harvard U., 1981.

[rs91] C. Rackoff and D. Simon. Non-interactive zero-knowledge proof of knowledge and chosen
       ciphertext attack. CRYPTO ’91, 1991.

[rk99] R. Richardson and J. Kilian. On the Concurrent Composition of Zero-Knowledge Proofs.
      In Eurocrypt99, LNCS 1592, pages 415–413.

[r06] A. Rosen. Concurrent Zero-Knowledge. Series on Information Security and Cryptography.
      Springer-Verlag, 2006.


                                               98
[r+ 00] P. Ryan, S. Schneider, M. Goldsmith, G. Lowe and B. Roscoe. The Modeling and Analysis
       of Security Protocols: the CSP Approach. Addison-Wesley, 2000.

[sl95] R. Segala and N. Lynch. Probabilistic simulations for probabilistic processes. Nordic Journal
       of Computing, Vol. 2. No. 2, pp 250-273, 1995.

[sh99] V. Shoup. On Formal Models for Secure Key Exchange. manuscript, 1999. Available at:
       http://www.shoup.org.

[si05] M. Sipser. Introduction to the Theory of Computation. Second edition, Course Technology,
       2005.

[s+06] C. Sprenger, M. Backes, D. A. Basin, B. Pfitzmann, and M. Waidner. Cryptographically
      sound theorem proving. In CSFW, pages 153–166. IEEE Computer Society, July 2006.

[w05] D. Wikström. On the security of mix-nets and hierarchical group signatures PhD Thesis,
      KTH, 2005.

[w16] D. Wikström. Simplified Universal Composability Framework. TCC (A1) 2016: 566-595.

[y82] A. Yao. Theory and applications of trapdoor functions. In Proc. 23rd Annual Symp. on
      Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS), pages 80–91. IEEE, 1982.

[y82] A. Yao. Protocols for Secure Computation. In Proc. 23rd Annual Symp. on Foundations of
      Computer Science (FOCS), pages 160–164. IEEE, 1982.

[y86] A. Yao, How to generate and exchange secrets, In Proc. 27th Annual Symp. on Foundations
      of Computer Science (FOCS), pages 162–167. IEEE, 1986.


A     Related work
This section surveys some related work. For brevity, we concentrate on works that led to the present
framework or directly affect it. This includes works that affect the first version (from December
2000), as well as works that influenced subsequent revisions. Still, we omit many works that use
this framework, study it and extend it. The review sections in [c01, c06, c07, c08, c13] cover some
of these works. For simplicity of exposition we mostly present the works in a rough chronological
order rather than in thematic order. Also we concentrate on contributions to the definitional aspects
cryptographic protocols rather than protocol design (although the two naturally go hand in hand).

Prior work. Two works that laid the foundations of general notions of security for cryptographic
protocols are the work of Yao [y82], which explicitly expressed the need for a general “unified”
framework for expressing the security requirements of secure computation protocols, and the work
of Goldreich, Micali and Wigderson [gmw87] which put forth the “trusted-party paradigm”, namely
the approach of defining security via comparison with an ideal process involving a trusted party
(albeit in a very informal way).
    Another work that greatly influenced the UC framework is the work of Dolev, Dwork and Naor
[ddn00]. This work points out some important security concerns that arise when cryptographic
protocols run concurrently within a larger system. In particular, making sure that the concerns
pointed out in [ddn00] are addressed is central to the present framework.


                                                 99
    The first rigorous general definitional framework for secure protocols is due to Goldwasser and
Levin [gl90], and was followed shortly by the frameworks of Micali and Rogaway [mr91] and
Beaver [b91]. In particular, the notion of “reducibility” in [mr91] directly underlies the notion
of protocol composition in many subsequent works including the present one. Beaver’s framework
was the first to directly formalize the idea of comparing a run of a protocol to an ideal process.
(However, the [mr91, b91] formalisms only address security in restricted settings; in particular,
they do not deal with computational issues.) [gl90, mr91, b91] are surveyed in [c00] in more
detail.
    The frameworks of [gl90, mr91, b91] concentrate on synchronous communication. Also, al-
though in [gmw87] the trusted-party paradigm was put forth for reactive functionalities, the three
frameworks concentrate on the task of secure function evaluation. An extension to asynchronous
communication networks with eventual message delivery is formulated in [bcg93]. A system model
and notion of security for reactive functionalities is sketched in Pfitzmann and Waidner [pw94].
    The first ideal-process based definition of computational security against resource bounded
adversaries is given in [c95]. In [c00] the framework of [c95] is strengthened to handle secure
composition. In particular, [c00] defines a general composition operation, called modular compo-
sition, which is a non-concurrent version of universal composition. That is, only a single protocol
session can be active at any point in time. (See more details in Section 7.4.) In addition, security
of protocols in that framework is shown to be preserved under modular composition. A closely
related formulation appears in [g04, Section 7.7.2].
    [c00] also sketches how to strengthen the definition there to support concurrent composition.
The UC framework implements these sketches in a direct way.
    The framework of Hirt and Maurer [hm00] provides a rigorous treatment of reactive functional-
ities. Dodis and Micali [dm00] build on the definition of Micali and Rogaway [mr91] for uncondi-
tionally secure function evaluation, which is specific to the setting where the communication between
parties is ideally private. In that setting, they prove that their notion of security is preserved under
a general concurrent composition operation similar to universal composition. They also formulate
an additional composition operation (called synchronous composition) that provides stronger secu-
rity guarantees, and show that their definition is closed under that composition operation in cases
where the scheduling of the various sessions of the protocols can be controlled. However, it is not
clear how to extend their definition and modeling to settings where the adversary has access to the
communication between honest parties.
    Lincoln, Mitchell, Mitchell and Scedrov [lmms98, lmms99] develop a process calculus, based
on the π-calculus of Milner [m89, m99], that incorporates random choices and computational lim-
itations on adversaries. (In [mms98] it is demonstrated how to express probabilistic polynomial
time within such a process calculus.) In that setting, their definitional approach has a number of
similarities to the simulation-based approach taken here: They define a computational variant of
observational equivalence, and say that a real-life process is secure if it is observationally equiva-
lent to an “ideal process” where the desired functionality is guaranteed. This is indeed similar to
requiring that no environment can tell whether it is interacting with the ideal process or with the
protocol execution. However, their ideal process must vary with the protocol to be analyzed, and
they do not seem to have an equivalent of the notion of an “ideal functionality” which is associated
only with the task and is independent of the analyzed protocol. This makes it harder to formalize
the security requirements of a given task.
    The modeling of randomized distributed computation in an asynchronous, event-driven setting
is an important component of this work. Works that considerably influenced the present modeling


                                                  100
include Chor and Moscovici [cm89], Chor and Nelson [cn99], Bird et al. [B+ 91], and Canetti and
Krawczyk [ck01].

Concurrent work. The framework of Pfitzmann, Schunter and Waidner [psw00, pw00] is the
first to rigorously address concurrent universal composition in a computational setting. (This
work is based on the sketches in [pw94]). They define security for reactive functionalities in a
synchronous setting and prove that security is preserved when a single session of a subroutine
protocol is composed concurrently with the calling protocol. An extension of the [psw00, pw00]
framework to asynchronous networks appears in [pw01].
     At high level, the notion of security in [psw00, pw00, pw01], called reactive simulatability, is
similar to the one here. In particular, the role of their “honest user” can be roughly mapped to
the role of the environment as defined here. However, there are several differences. They use a
finite-state machine model of computation that builds on the I/O automata model of [ly96], as
opposed to the ITM-based model used in this work. Their model provides a rich set of methods
for scheduling events in an execution. Still, they postulate a static system where the number of
participants and their identities are fixed in advance (this is somewhat similar to the model of
Section 2 in this work). In particular, the number of protocol sessions run by the parties is constant
and fixed in advance, thus it is impossible to argue about the security of systems where the number
of protocol sessions may be a non-constant function of the security parameter (even if this number is
known in advance). Other technical differences include the notion of polynomial time computation
(all entities are bounded by a fixed polynomial in the security parameter regardless of the input
length - see discussion in Section 3.3.4), and scheduling of events.

Subequent work. Backes, Pfitzmann and Waidner [bpw04] extend the framework of [pw01]
to deal with the case where the number of parties and protocol sessions depends on the security
parameter (still it is otherwise static as in [pw00]). In that framework, they prove that reactive
simulatability is preserved under universal composition. The [bpw07] formulation returns to the
original approach where the number of entities and protocol sessions is fixed irrespective of the
security parameter.
    Mateus, Mitchell and Scedrov [mms03] and Datta, Küsters, Mitchell, and Ranamanathan
[dkmr05] (see also [d05]) extend the [lmms98, lmms99] framework to express simulatability as
defined here, cast in a process calculus for probabilistic polynomial time computation, and demon-
strate that the universal composition theorem holds in their framework. They also rigorously
compare certain aspects of the present framework (as defined in [c01]) and reactive simulatability
(as defined in [bpw07]). Tight correspondence between the [mms03] notion of security and the one
defined here is demonstrated in Almansa [a04]. We note that all of these frameworks postulate a
static execution model which is most similar to the one in Section 2.
    Canetti et al. [c+05] extend the probabilistic I/O automata of Lynch, Segala and Vaandrager
[sl95, lsv03] to a framework that allows formulating security of cryptographic protocols along
the lines of the present UC framework. This involves developing a special mechanism, called the
task schedule, for curbing the power of non-deterministic scheduling; it also requires modeling
resource-bounded computations. The result is a framework that represents the concurrent nature
of distributed systems in a direct way, that allows for analyzing partially-specified protocols (such
as, say, standards), that allows some scheduling choices to be determined non-deterministically
during run-time, and at the same time still allows for meaningful UC-style security specifications.
    Micciancio and Tessaro [mt13] provide an alternative, simplified formalism for composable


                                                 101
simulation-based security of protocol. The formalism, which is a generalization of Kahn networks
[k74], allows for equational (rather than temporal) representation and analysis of protocols and
their security.
    Küsters and Tüngerthal [k06, kt13] formulate an ITM-based model of computation that al-
lows for defining UC-style notions of security. The model contains new constructs that facilitate
both flexible addressing of messages and a flexible notion of resource-bounded computation in a
distributed environment. This work also adapts abstract notations from the process calculus litera-
ture to an ITM-based model, allowing for succinct and clear presentation of composition theorems
and proofs. In particular the accounting of the import of messages in this work is influenced by
the modeling of [k06].
    Hofheinz, Müller-Quade and Unruh [hmu09] give an alternative definition of polynomial time
ITMs (see discussion in Section 3.3.4). Hofheinz and Shoup [hs11] point to a number of flaws
in previous versions of this work and formulate a variant of the UC framework that avoids these
flaws. Their framework (called GNUC) differs from the present one in two main ways: First,
their notion of polynomial time is close to that of [hmu09]. Second, they mandate a more rigid
subroutine structure for protocols, as well as a specific format for session IDs that represents the said
subroutine structure. While indeed simplifying the argumentation on a natural class of protocols,
the GNUC framework does not allow representing and arguing about other natural classes (see e.g.
Footnote 25).
    Nielsen [n03], Hofheinz and Müller-Quade [hm04a], and Katz et al. [kmtz13] formulate syn-
chronous variants of the UC framework. Wikström [w05, w16], as well as Canetti, Cohen and
Lindell [ccl15] present simplified formulations of the UC framework, geared as simplifying the
presentation and analysis of protocols in more “standard” multiparty computation settings.


B     Previous versions of this work
The present framework has evolved considerably over the years; We highlight the main advances
made in each version. We note that, in addition to these advances, each revision corrects inaccura-
cies and modeling discrepancies that were found in previous versions. We have tried to document
each such correction in the right place in the text. For discrepancies that were pointed out to us by
others, we also made all effort to acknowledge these colleagues. We sincerely thank these colleagues
and apologize for any omissions. We feel particularily obliged to the anonymous referees who have
pointed out great many inaccuracies, large and small.
     The first versions of this work [c00a, Versions of 2000 and 2001] do not formulate a separate,
rigorous model of distributed computation, and have different models for the execution of a protocol
and for the ideal process. Also different communication and corruption models are treated as
variants of the basic model.
     The next revision [c00a, Version of 2005] introduces the notion of a system of ITMs and is the
first to treat communication models as additional constructs on top of a single basic model, where
the UC theorem is stated in the basic model. This version also moves from the restricted notion of
“polynomial time in the security parameter” to a more expressive notion that takes into account
input size, formally defines security with respect to the dummy adversary and demonstrates its
equivalence with plain UC security, and presents a more detailed proof of the composition theorem.
     The next revision [c00a, Version of 2013] is the first to treat corruption models as additional
constructs on top of the basic model. It also provides an improved treatment of identities and the
need to translate identities in the composition operation, simplifies the notion of polynomial time,


                                                  102
and introduces the notions of balanced environments and subroutine respecting protocols.
    The next version [c00a, Version of 2018] further improves the treatment of identities and
subroutine respecting protocols, introduces subroutine-exposing protocols as a tool to fix a flaw in
the composition theorem, generalizes the notion of polynomial runtime (using import), simplifies
the definition of systems of ITIs and the model of protocol execution, and introduces the simplified,
“static” model of computation of Section 2.
    The next version [c00a, Version of 2018] further spells out model of Section 2, as well as the
mechanism of bodies and shells and its use to express subroutine respecting and subroutine exposing
protocols, as well as the composition operation and party corruption.
    The present version provides a cleaner and more expressive definition of extended protocol
instances and subroutine respecting protocols. The new formulation allows applying universal
composition to a broader class of protocols. The formulation of the ideal authenticated and secure
communication functionalities were also updated.




                                                103
