                                                       Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables
                                                             Michael T. Goodrich
                                                          Dept. of Computer Science




arXiv:1101.2245v3 [cs.DS] 4 Oct 2015
                                                         University of California, Irvine
                                                   http://www.ics.uci.edu/˜goodrich/
                                                            Michael Mitzenmacher
                                                          Dept. of Computer Science
                                                              Harvard University
                                                http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/˜michaelm/


                                                                                   Abstract
                                                  We present a version of the Bloom filter data structure that supports not only
                                             the insertion, deletion, and lookup of key-value pairs, but also allows a complete
                                             listing of the pairs it contains with high probability, as long the number of key-
                                             value pairs is below a designed threshold. Our structure allows the number of key-
                                             value pairs to greatly exceed this threshold during normal operation. Exceeding the
                                             threshold simply temporarily prevents content listing and reduces the probability
                                             of a successful lookup. If entries are later deleted to return the structure below
                                             the threshold, everything again functions appropriately. We also show that simple
                                             variations of our structure are robust to certain standard errors, such as the deletion
                                             of a key without a corresponding insertion or the insertion of two distinct values
                                             for a key. The properties of our structure make it suitable for several applications,
                                             including database and networking applications that we highlight.


                                       1    Introduction
                                       The Bloom filter data structure [5] is a well-known way of probabilistically supporting
                                       dynamic set membership queries that has been used in a multitude of applications (e.g.,
                                       see [8]). The key feature of a standard Bloom filter is the way it trades off query
                                       accuracy for space efficiency, by using a binary array T (initially all zeroes) and k
                                       random hash functions, h1 , . . . , hk , to represent a set S by assigning T [hi (x)] = 1 for
                                       each x ∈ S. To check if x ∈ S one can check that T [hi (x)] = 1 for 1 ≤ i ≤ k,
                                       with some chance of a false positive. This representation of S does not allow one to
                                       list out the contents of S given only T . This aspect of Bloom filters is sometimes
                                       viewed as a feature, in settings where some degree of privacy protection is desired
                                       (e.g., see [2, 3, 18, 27, 30]). Still, in many domains one would benefit from a similar
                                       set representation that would also allow listing out the set’s contents [17].



                                                                                       1
    In this paper, we are interested not in simply representing a set, but instead in meth-
ods for probabilistically representing a lookup table (that is, an associative memory) of
key-value pairs, where the keys and values can be represented as fixed-length integers.
Unlike previous approaches (e.g., see [6, 9]), we specifically desire a data structure that
supports the listing out of all of its key-value pairs. We refer to such a structure as an
invertible Bloom lookup table (IBLT).

1.1    Related Work
Our work can be seen as an extension of the invertible Bloom filter data structure of
Eppstein and Goodrich [17], modified to store key-value pairs instead of only keys.
Our analysis, however, supersedes the analysis of the previous paper in several re-
spects, in terms of efficiency and tightness of the analysis (as well as correcting some
small deficiencies). In particular, our analysis demonstrates the natural connection be-
tween these data structures and cores of random hypergraphs, similar to the connection
found previously for cuckoo hashing and erasure-correcting codes (e.g., see [16, 23]).
This provides both a significant constant factor reduction in the required space for the
data structure, as well as an important reduction in the error probability (to inverse
polynomial, from constant in [17]). In addition, our IBLT supports some usage cases
and applications (discussed later in this section) that are not supported by a standard
invertible Bloom filter.
    Given its volume, reviewing all previous work on Bloom filters is, not surprisingly,
beyond the scope of this paper (e.g., see [7, 8, 33] for some excellent surveys). Never-
theless, two closely related works include Bloomier filters [9] and Approximate Con-
current State Machines (ACSMs) [6], which are structures to store and track key-value
pairs. Song et al. [35] store elements in a Bloom-like hash table in a fashion that is
somewhat similar to that of a cuckoo hash table [15, 26, 29]. Cohen and Matias [12] de-
scribe an extended Bloom filter that allows for multiplicity queries on multisets. While
an IBLT is not intended for changing values, it can be used in such settings where a
key-value pair can be explicitly deleted and a new value for the key re-inserted. Again,
an IBLT has additional features, including listing, graceful handling of data exceed-
ing the listing threshold, and counting multiplicities, which make it useful for several
applications where these other structures are insufficient.
    Another similar structure is the recently developed counter braid architecture [22],
which keeps an updatable count field for a set of flows in a compressed form, with the
compressed form arising by a careful use of hashing and allowing reconstruction of
the count for each flow. Unlike an IBLT, however, the flow list must be kept explicitly
to read out the flow counts, and such lists do not allow for direct lookups of individ-
ual values. There are several other differences from our work due to their focus on
counters, but perhaps most notable is their decoding algorithm, which utilizes belief
propagation. Additional work in the area of approximate counting of a similar flavor
but with very different goals from the IBLT includes the well-known CM-sketch [13]
and recent work by Price [32].




                                            2
1.2    Our Results
We present a deceptively simple variation of the Bloom filter data structure that is
designed for key-value pairs and further avoids the limitation of previous structures
(such as [6, 9]) that do not allow the listing of contents. As mentioned above, we call
our structure an invertible Bloom lookup table, or IBLT for short. Our IBLT supports
insertions, deletions, and lookups in O(k) time, where k is the number of random
hash functions used (which will typically be a constant in practice). Just as Bloom
filters have false positives, our lookup operation works only with constant probability,
although this probability can be made quite close to 1.
     Our data structure also allows for a complete listing of the key-value pairs the
structure contains, with high probability, whenever the current number, n, of such pairs
lies below a certain threshold capacity, t, a parameter that is part of the structure’s
design. This listing takes O(t) time. In addition, because the content-listing operation
succeeds with high probability, one can also use it as a backup in the case that a standard
lookup fails—namely, if a lookup fails, perform a listing of key-value pairs until one
can retrieve a value for the desired key.
     Our IBLT construction is also space-efficient, requiring space1 at most linear in t,
the threshold number of keys, even if the number, n, of stored key-value pairs grows
well beyond t (for example, to polynomial in t) at points in time. One could of course
instead keep an actual list of key-value pairs with linear space, but this would require
space linear in n, i.e., the maximum number of keys, not the target number, t, of keys.
Keeping a list also necessarily requires more computationally expensive lookup opera-
tions than our approach supports.
     We further show that with some additional checksums we can tolerate various nat-
ural errors in the system. For example, we can cope with key-value pairs being deleted
without first being inserted, or keys being inserted with the same value multiple times,
or keys mistakenly being inserted with multiple values simultaneously. Interestingly,
together with its contents-listing ability, this error tolerance leads to a number of appli-
cations of the IBLT, which we discuss next.

1.3    Applications and Usage Cases
There are a number of possible applications and usage cases for invertible Bloom
lookup tables, some of which we explore here.

Database Reconciliation Suppose Alice and Bob hold distinct, but similar, copies,
DA and DB , of an indexed database, D, and they would like to reconcile the differ-
ences between DA and DB . For example, Alice could hold a current version of D
and Bob could hold a backup, or Alice and Bob could represent two different copies
of someone’s calendar database (say, respectively on a desktop computer and a smart-
phone) that now need to be symmetrically synchronized. Such usage cases are natural
in database systems, particularly for systems that take the approach advocated in an
   1 As in the standard RAM model, we assume in this paper that keys and values respectively fit in a

single word of memory (which, in practice, could actually be any fixed number of memory words), and we
characterize the space used by our data structure in terms of the number of memory words it uses.



                                                  3
interesting recent CACM article by Stonebraker [36] that argues in favor of sacrific-
ing consistency for the sake of availability and partition-tolerance, and then regaining
consistency by performing database reconciliation computations whenever needed. In-
cidentally, in a separate work, Eppstein et al.2 are currently empirically exploring a
similar application of the invertible Bloom table technology for the reconciliation of
two distributed mirrors of a filesystem (say, in a peer-to-peer network).
    To achieve such a reconciliation with low overhead, Alice constructs an IBLT, B,
for DA , using indices as keys and checksums of her records as values. She then sends
the IBLT B to Bob, who then deletes index-checksum pairs from B corresponding to all
of his entries in DB . The remaining key-value pairs corresponding to insertions with-
out deletions identify records that Alice has that Bob doesn’t have, and the remaining
key-value pairs corresponding to deletions without insertions identify records that Bob
has that Alice doesn’t have. In addition, as we show, Bob can also use B to identify
records that they both possess but with different checksums. In this way, Alice needs
only to send a message B of size O(t), where t here is an upper bound on the num-
ber of differences between DA and DB , for Bob to determine the identities of their
differences (and a symmetric property holds for a similar message from Bob to Alice).

Tracking Network Acknowledgments As another example application, consider a
router R that would like to track TCP sessions passing through R. In this case, each
session corresponds to a key, and may have an associated value, such as the source
or the destination, that needs to be tracked. When such flows are initiated in TCP,
particular control messages are passed that can be easily detected, allowing the router
to add the flow to the structure. Similarly, when a flow terminates, control messages
ending the flow are sent. The IBLT supports fast insertions and deletions and can be
used to list out the current flows in the system at various times, as long as the number
of flows is less than some preset threshold, t. Note this work can be offloaded simply
by sending a copy of the IBLT to an offline agent if desired. Furthermore, the IBLT can
return the value associated with a flow when queried, with constant probability close
to 1. Finally, if at various points, the number of flows spikes above its standard level to
well above t, the IBLT will still be able to list out the flows and perform lookups with
the appropriate probabilities once the total load returns to t or below. Again, this is a
key feature of the IBLT; all keys and values can be reconstructed with high probability
whenever the number of keys is below a design threshold, but if the number of keys
temporarily exceeds this design threshold and later returns to below this threshold, then
the functionality will return at that later time.
    In this networking setting, sometimes flows do not terminate properly, leaving them
in the data structure when they should disappear. Similarly, initialization messages
may not be properly handled, leading to a deletion without a corresponding insertion.
We show that the IBLT can be modified to handle such errors with minimal loss in
performance. Specifically, we can handle keys that are deleted without being inserted,
or keys that erroneously obtain multiple values. Even with such errors, we provide
conditions for which all valid flows can still all be listed with high probability. Our
experimental results also highlight robustness to these types of errors. (Eventually, of
  2 Personal communication.




                                            4
course, such problematic keys should be removed from the data structure. We do not
concern ourselves with removal policies here; see [6] for some possibilities based on
timing structures.)

Oblivious Selection from a Table As a final motivating application, consider a sce-
nario where Alice has outsourced her data storage needs, including the contents of an
important indexed table, T , of size n, to a cloud storage server, Bob, because Alice has
very limited storage capacity (e.g., Alice may only have a smartphone). Moreover, be-
cause her data is sensitive and she knows Bob is honest-but-curious regarding her data,
she encrypts each record of T using a secret key, and random nonces, so that Bob can-
not determine the contents of any record from its encryption alone. Such encryptions
are not sufficient, however, to fully protect the privacy of Alice’s data, as recent attacks
show that the way Alice accesses her data can reveal its contents (e.g., see [10]). Alice
needs a way of hiding any patterns in the way she accesses her data.
     Suppose now that Alice would like to do a simple SELECT query on T and she
is confident that the result will have a size at most t, which is much less than n but
still more than she can store locally. Thus, she cannot use techniques from private
information retrieval [11, 37], as that would either require storing results back with
Bob in a way that could reveal selected indices or using yet another server besides
Bob. She could use techniques from recent oblivious RAM simulations [19, 20, 31] to
obfuscate her access patterns, but doing so would require O(n log2 n) I/Os. Therefore,
using existing techniques would be inefficient.
     By using an IBLT, on the other hand, she can perfrom her SELECT query much more
efficiently. The advantage comes from the fact that an insertion in an IBLT accesses a
random set of cells (that is, memory locations) whose addresses depend (via random
hash functions) only on the key of the item being inserted. Alice thus uses all the
indices for T as keys, one for each record, and accesses memory as though inserting
each record into an IBLT of size O(t). In fact, Alice only inserts those records that
satisfy her SELECT query. However, since Alice encrypts each write using a secret
key and random nonces, Bob cannot tell when Alice’s write operations are actually
changing the records stored in the IBLT, and when a write operation is simply rewriting
the same contents of a cell over again re-encrypted with a different nonce. In this way
Alice can obliviously create an IBLT of size O(t) that contains the result of her query
and is stored by Bob. Then, using existing methods for oblivious RAM simulation [20],
she can subsequently obliviously extract the elements from her IBLT using O(t log2 t)
I/Os. With this approach Bob learns nothing about her data from her access pattern. In
addition, the total number of I/Os for her to perform her query is O(n + t log2 t), which
is linear (and optimal) for any t that is O(n/ log2 n). We are not currently aware of any
other way that Alice can achieve such a result using a structure other than an IBLT.




                                             5
2      A Simple Version of the Invertible Bloom Lookup Ta-
       ble
In this section, we describe and analyze a simple version of the IBLT. In the sections
that follow we describe how to augment and extend this simple structure to achieve
various additional performance goals.
     The IBLT data structure, B, is a randomized data structure storing a set of key-value
pairs. It is designed with respect to a threshold number of keys, t; when we say the
structure is successful for an operation with high probability it is under the assumption
that the actual number of keys in the structure at that time, which we henceforth denote
by n, is less than or equal to t. Note that n can exceed t during the course of normal
operation, however.
     As mentioned earlier, we assume throughout that, as in the standard RAM model,
keys and values respectively fit in a single word of memory (which, in practice, could
actually be any fixed number of memory words) and that each such word can alter-
natively be viewed as an integer, character string, floating-point number, etc. Thus,
without loss of generality, we view keys and values as positive integers.
     In many cases we take sums of keys and/or values; we must also consider whether
word-value overflow when trying to store these sums in a memory word. (That is, the
sum is larger than what fits in a data word.) As we explain in more detail at appropriate
points below, such considerations have minimal effects. In most situations, with suit-
ably sized memory words, overflow may never be a consideration. Alternatively, if we
work in a system that supports graceful overflows, so that (x + y) − y = x even if the
first sum results in an overflow, our approach works with negligible changes. Finally,
we can also work modulo some large prime (so that vaues fit within a memory word)
to enforce graceful overflow. These variations have negligible effects on the analysis.
However, we point out that in many settings (except in the case where we may have
duplicate copies of the same key-value pair), we can use XORs in place of sums in our
algorithms, and avoid overflow issues entirely.

2.1      Operations Supported
Our structure supports the following operations:
    • INSERT(x, y): insert the key-value pair, (x, y), into B. This operation always
      succeeds, assuming that all keys are distinct.
    • DELETE(x, y): delete the key-value pair, (x, y), from B. This operation always
      succeeds, provided (x, y) ∈ B, which we assume for the rest of this section.
    • GET(x): return the value y such that there is a key-value pair, (x, y), in B. If
      y = null is returned, then (x, y) 6∈ B for any value of y. With low (but constant)
      probability, this operation may fail, returning a “not found” error condition. In
      this case there may or may not be a key-value pair (x, y) in B.
      • LIST E NTRIES(): list all the key-value pairs being stored in B. With low (inverse
        polynomial in t) probability, this operation may return a partial list along with an


                                              6
        “list-incomplete” error condition.
    When an IBLT B is first created, it initializes a lookup table T of m cells. Each
of the cells in T stores a constant number of fields, each of which corresponds to a
single memory word. We emphasize that an important feature of the data structure is
that at times the number of key-value pairs in B can be much larger than m, but the
space used for B remains O(m) words. (We discuss potential issues with word-value
overflow where appropriate.) The INSERT and DELETE methods never fail, whereas the
GET and LIST E NTRIES methods, on the other hand, only guarantee good probabilistic
success when n ≤ t. For our structures we shall generally have m = O(t), and often
we can give quite tight analyses on the constants required, as we shall see below.

2.2     Data Structure Architecture
Like a standard Bloom filter, an IBLT uses a set of k random3 hash functions, h1 , h2 ,
. . ., hk , to determine where key-value pairs are stored. In our case, each key-value
pair, (x, y), is placed into cells T [h1 (x)], T [h2 (x)], . . . T [ht (x)]. In what follows,
for technical reasons4 , we assume that the hashes yield distinct locations. This can
be accomplished in various ways, with one standard approach being to split the m
cells into k subtables each of size m/k, and having each hash function choose one cell
(uniformly) from each subtable. Such splitting does not affect the asymptotic behavior
in our analysis and can yield other benefits, including ease of parallelization of reads
and writes into the hash table. (Another approach would be to select the first k distinct
hash values from a specific sequence of random hash functions.)
      Each cell contains three fields:
      • a count field, which counts the number of entries that have been mapped to this
        cell,
      • a keySum field, which is the sum of all the keys that have been mapped to this
        cell,
      • a valueSum field, which is the sum of all the values that have been mapped to
        this cell.
    Given these fields, which are initially 0, performing the update operations is fairly
straightforward:

    • INSERT(x, y):
         for each (distinct) hi (x), for i = 1, . . . , k do
    3 We assume, for the sake of simplicity in our analysis, that the hash functions are fully random, but

this does not appear strictly required. For example, the techniques of [24] can be applied if the data has a
sufficient amount of entropy. For worst-case data, we are not aware of any results regarding the 2-core of
a random hypergraph where the vertices for each edge are chosen according to hash functions with limited
independence, which, as we will see, would be needed for such a result. Similar graph problems with limited
independence have recently been studied in [1]. It is an interesting theoretical question to obtain better
bounds on the randomness needed for our proposed IBLT data structure.
    4 Incidentally, this same technicality can be used to correct a small deficiency in the paper of Eppstein and

Goodrich [17].


                                                       7
               add 1 to T [hi (x)].count
               add x to T [hi (x)].keySum
               add y to T [hi (x)].valueSum
             end for
    • DELETE(x, y):
         for each (distinct) hi (x), for i = 1, . . . , k do
           subtract 1 from T [hi (x)].count
           subtract x from T [hi (x)].keySum
           subtract y from T [hi (x)].valueSum
         end for

2.3      Data Lookups
We perform the GET operation in a manner similar to how membership queries are
done in a standard Bloom filter. The details are as follows:
      • GET(x):
           for each (distinct) hi (x), for i = 1, . . . , k do
             if T [hi (x)].count = 0 then
                return null
             else if T [hi (x)].count = 1 then
                if T [hi (x)].keySum = x then
                   return T [hi (x)].valueSum
                else
                   return null
                end if
             end if
           end for
           return “not found”
     Recall that for now we assume that all insertions and deletions are done correctly,
that is, no insert will be done for an existing key in B and no delete will be performed
for a key-value pair not already in B. With this assumption, if the above operation
returns a value y or the null value, then this is the correct response. This method may
fail, returning “not found,” if it can find no cell that x maps to that holds only one entry.
Also, as a value is returned only if the count is 1, overflow of the sum fields is not a
concern.
     For a key x that is in B, consider the probability p0 that each of its hash locations
contains no other item. Using the standard analysis for Bloom filters (e.g., see [8]), we
find p0 is:
                                            (n−1)
                                           k
                            p0 = 1 −                  ≈ e−kn/m .
                                          m
That is, assuming the table is split into k subtables of size m/k (one for each hash
function), each of the other n − 1 keys misses the location independently with proba-
bility 1 − k/m. One nice interpretation of this is that the number of keys that hash to


                                                8
the cell is approximately a Poisson random variable with mean kn/m, and e−kn/m is
the corresponding probability a cell is empty. The probability that a GET for a key that
is in B returns “not found” is therefore approximately
                                                  k
                            (1 − p0 )k ≈ 1 − e−kn/m ,

which corresponds to the false-positive rate for a standard Bloom filter. As is standard
for these arguments, these approximations can be readily replaced by tight concentra-
tion results [8].
    The probability that a GET for a key that is not in B returns“not found” instead of
null can be found similarly. Here, however, note that every cell hashed to by that key
must be hashed to by at least two other keys from B. This is because an empty cell
would lead to a null return value, and a cell with just one key hashed to it would yield
the corresponding true key value, and hence also lead to a null return value for a key
not in B. Using the same approximation – specifically, that the number of keys from
B that land in a cell is approximately distributed as a discrete Poisson random variable
with mean kn/m – we find this probability is
                                                         k
                                               kn −kn/m
                               1 − e−kn/m −      e             .
                                               m

2.4   Listing Set Entries
Let us next consider the method for listing the contents of B. We describe this method
in a destructive fashion—if one wants a non-destructive method, then one should first
create a copy of B as a backup.
   • LIST E NTRIES():
         while there’s an i ∈ [1, m] with T [i].count = 1 do
            add the pair (T [i].keySum , T [i].valueSum) to the output list
            call DELETE(T [i].keySum , T [i].valueSum)
         end while
It is a fairly straightforward exercise to implement this method in O(m) time, say, by
using a link-list-based priority queue of cells in T indexed by their count fields and
modifying the DELETE method to update this queue each time it deletes an entry from
B.
     If at the end of the while-loop all the entries in T are empty, then we say that the
method succeeded and we can confirm that the output list is the entire set of entries
in B. If, on the other hand, there are some cells in T with non-zero counts, then the
method only outputs a partial list of the key-value pairs in B.
     This process should appear entirely familiar to those who work with random graphs
and hypergraphs. It is exactly the same procedure used to find the 2-core of a random
hypergraph (e.g., see [16, 25]). To make the connection, think of the cells as being ver-
tices in the hypergraph, and the key-value pairs as being hyperedges, with the vertices
for an edge corresponding to the hash locations for the key. The 2-core is the largest


                                           9
sub-hypergraph that has minimum degree at least 2. The standard “peeling process”
finds the 2-core: while there exists a vertex with degree 1, delete it and the corre-
sponding hyperedge. The equivalence between the peeling process and the scheme for
LIST E NTRIES is immediate. We note that this peeling process is similarly used for var-
ious erasure-correcting codes, such as Tornado codes and its derivatives (e.g., see [23]),
that have, in some ways, the same flavor as this construction5 .
    Assuming that the cells associated with a key are chosen uniformly at random, we
use known results on 2-cores of random hypergraphs. In particular, tight thresholds
are known; when the number of hash values k of each is at least 2, there are constants
ck > 1 such that if m > (ck + )n for any constant  > 0, LIST E NTRIES succeeds
with high probability, that is with probability 1 − o(1). Similarly, if m < (ck − )n for
any constant  > 0, LIST E NTRIES succeeds with probability o(1). Hence t = m/ck
is (approximately) the design threshold for the IBLT. As can be found in for example
[16, 25], these values are given by
                        n                                                  o
                                                               −kαxk−1
             c−1
              k  =  sup   α  : 0 < α <  1; ∀x ∈  (0, 1), 1 − e          < x  .

     It is easy to check from this definition that ck ≤ k, as for α = 1/k we immediately
                k−1
have 1 − e−x         < x. In fact ck grows much mor slowly with k, as shown in Table 1,
which gives numerical values for these thresholds for 3 ≤ k ≤ 7. Here we are not
truly concerned with the exact values ck ; it is enough that only linear space is required.
It is worthwhile noting that ck is generally close to 1, while to obtain successful GET
operations we require a number of cells which is a significant constant factor larger
than n. Therefore, in practice the choice of the size of the IBLT will generally be
determined by the desired probability for a successful GET operation, not the need for
listing. (For applications where GET operations are unimportant and listing is the key
feature, further improvements can be had by using irregular IBLTs.)

                          k        3          4          5          6          7
                          ck     1.222      1.295      1.425      1.570      1.721


            Table 1: Thresholds for the 2-core rounded to four decimal places.

    When we design our IBLT, depending on the application, we may want a target
probability for succeeding in listing entries. Specifically, we may desire failure to
occur with probability O(t−c ) for a chosen constant c (whenever n ≤ t). By choosing
k sufficiently large and m above the 2-core threshold, we can ensure this; indeed,
standard results give that the bottleneck is the possibility of having two edges with the
same collection of vertices, giving a failure probability of O(t−k+2 ). The following
theorem follows from previous work but we provide it for completeness.
Theorem 1: As long as m is chosen so that m > (ck + )t for some  > 0, LIST E N -
TRIES fails with probability O(t−k+2 ) whenever n ≤ t.
    5 Following this analogy, one could for example, consider irregular versions of the IBLT, where different

keys utilize a different number of hash values; such a variation could use less space while allowing LIST E N -
TRIES to succeed, or could be used to allow some keys with more hash locations to obtain a better likelihood
of a successful lookup. These variations are straightforward and we do not consider the details further here.


                                                     10
Proof: We describe the result in terms of the 2-core. In what follows we assume
n ≤ t. The probability that j hyperedges form a non-empty 2-core is dominated by the
probability that these edges utilize only jk/2 vertices. This probability is at most
                       jk               n j  2m jk/2  jk jk
              n    m     jk
                                        ≤
              j   jk/2   2m                       e    jk          2m
                                                             jk/2     j
                                                  nj
                                                                
                                                        jke         e
                                        =                                .
                                                 mjk/2 m            j

For k constant, m > (ck + )n, and j ≤ γn for some constant γ, the sum of these
probabilities is dominated by the term where j = 2, which corresponds to a failure
probability of O(n−k+2 ). To deal separately with the case of j > γn, we note that
standard analysis of the peeling process shows that, as long as m is above the decoding
threshold, the probability that the peeling process fails before reaching a core of size
δn for any constant δ is asymptotically exponentially small in n. (See, e.g., [14].) By
this argument the case of j > γn adds a vanishing amount to the failure probability,
completing the proof of the theorem.



3    Adding Fault Tolerance to an Invertible Bloom Lookup
     Table
For cases where there can be deletions for key-value pairs that are not already in B, or
values can be inserted for keys that are already in B, we require some fault tolerance.
We can utilize a standard approach of adding random checksums to get better fault
tolerance.

Extraneous Deletions Let us first consider a case with extraneous deletions only.
Specifically, we assume a key-value pair might be deleted without a corresponding
insertion; however, in this first setting we still assume each key is associated with a
single value, and is not inserted or deleted multiple times at any instant. This causes
a variety of problems for both the GET and LIST E NTRIES routines. For example, it is
possible for a cell to have an associated count of 1 even if more than one key has hashed
to it, if there are corresponding extraneous deletions; this causes us to re-evaluate our
LIST E NTRIES routine.
     To help deal with these issues, we add to our IBLT structure. We assume that each
key x has an additional hash value given by a hash function G1 (x), which in general
we assume will take on uniform random values in a range [1, R]. We then require each
cell has the following additional field:
    • a hashkeySum field, which is the sum of the hash values, G1 (x), for all the
      keys that have been mapped to this cell.
The hashkeySum field must be of sufficiently many bits and the hash function must be
sufficiently random to make collisions sufficiently unlikely; this is not hard to achieve


                                            11
in practice. Our insertion and deletion operations must now change accordingly, in that
we now must add G1 (x) to each T [hi (x)].hashkeySum on an insertion and subtract
G1 (x) during a deletion. The pseudocode for these and the other operations is given in
Figure 3 at the end of this paper.
     The hashkeySum field can serve as an extra check. For example, to check when a
cell has a count of 1 that it corresponds to a cell without extraneous deletions, we check
G1 (x) field against the hashkeySum field. For an error to occur, we must have that
a deletion has caused a count of 1 where the count should be higher, and the hashed
key values must align so that their sum causes a false check. This probability is clearly
at most 1/R (using the standard principle of deferred decisions, the “last hash” must
take on the precise wrong value for a false check). We will generally assume that R
is chosen large enough that we can assume a false match does not occur throughout
the lifetime of the data structure, noting that only O(log n) bits are needed to handle
lifetimes that are polynomial in n. Notice that even if sum fields overflow, as long as
they overflow gracefully, the probability of a false check is still 1/R.
     Let us now consider GET operations. The natural approach is to assume that the
hashkeySum field will not lead to a false check, as above. In this case, on a GET
of a key x, if the count field is 0, and the keySum and hashkeySum are also 0, one
should assume that the cell is in fact empty, and return null. Similarly, if the count field
is 1, and the keySum and hashkeySum match x and G1 (x), respectively, then one
should assume the cell has the right key, and return its value. In fact, if the count field
is −1, and after negating keySum and hashkeySum the values match x and G1 (x),
respectively, one should assume the cell has the right key, except that it has been deleted
instead of inserted! In our pseudocode we return the value, although one could also flag
it as an extraneous deletion as well. Note, however, that we can no longer return null if
the count field is 1 but the keySum field does not match x; in this case, there could be,
for example, an additional key inserted and an additional key extraneously deleted from
that cell, which would cause the field to not match even if x was hashed to that cell.
If we let n be the number of keys either inserted or extraneously deleted in the IBLT,
                                                                                          k
then this reduces the probability of returning null for a key not in B to 1 − e−kn/m .
That is, to return null we must have at least one cell with zero key-value pairs from
B hashing to it, which occurs (approximately) with the given probability (using our
Poisson approximation).
     For the LIST E NTRIES operation, we again use the hashkeySum field to check
when a cell has a count of 1 that it corresponds to a cell without extraneous deletions.
Note here that an error in this check will cause the entire listing operation to fail, so the
probability of a false check should be made quite low—certainly inverse polynomial
in n. Also note, again, that we can make progress in recovering keys with cells with
a count of −1 as well, if the cell contains only one extraneously deleted key and no
inserted keys. That is, if a cell contains a count of −1, we can negate the count,
keySum, and hashkeySum fields, check the hash value against the key to prevent a
false match, and if that check passes recover the key and remove it (in this case, add it
back in) to the other associated cells. Hence, a cell cannot yield a key during the listing
process only if more than one key, either inserted or deleted, has hashed to that cell.
This is now exactly the same setting as in the original case of no extraneous deletions,


                                             12
and hence (assuming that no false checks occur!) the same analysis applies, with n
representing the number of keys either inserted or extraneously deleted. We give the
revised pseudo-code descriptions in Figure 3.

Multiple Values A more challenging case for fault tolerance occurs when a key can
be inserted multiple times with different values, or inserted and deleted with different
values. If a key is inserted multiple times with different values, not only can that key
not be recovered, but every cell associated with that key has been poisoned, in that it
will not be useful for listing keys, as it cannot have a count of 1 even as other values are
recovered. (A later deletion of a key-value pair could correct this problem, of course,
but the cell is poisoned at the time.) The same is true if a key is inserted and deleted
with different values, and here the problem is potentially even worse: if a single other
key hashes to that cell, the count may be 1 and the keySum and hashkeySum fields
will be correct even though the valueSum field will not match the other key’s value,
causing errors.
    Correspondingly, we introduce an additional check for the sum of the values at a
cell, using a hash function G2 (y) for the values, and adding the following field:
   • a hashvalueSum field, which is the sum of the hash values G2 (y) for all the
     values that have been mapped to this cell.
One can then check that the hash of the keySum and valueSum take on the appropriate
values when the count field of a cell is 1 (or −1) in order to see if listing the key-value
pair is appropriate.
     The question remains whether the poisoned cells will prevent recovery of key val-
ues. Here we modify the goal of LIST E NTRIES to return all key-value pairs for all valid
keys with high probability—that is, all keys with a single associated value at that time.
We first claim that if the invalid keys make up a constant fraction of the n keys that
this is not possible under our construction with linear space. A constant fraction of the
cells would then be poisoned, and with constant probability each valid key would then
hash solely to poisoned cells, in which case the key could not be recovered.
     However, it is useful to consider these probabilities, as in practical settings these
quantities will determine the probability of failure. For example, suppose γn keys are
invalid for some constant γ. By our previous analysis,      the fraction of cells that are
poisoned is concentrated around 1 − e−kγn/m , and hence the probability that any
                                                   
                                                                    k
specific valid key has all of its cells poisoned is 1 − e−kγn/m . (While there are
other possible ways a key could not be recovered, for example if two keys have all
but one of their cells poisoned and their remaining cell is the same, this gives a good
first approximation for reasonable values, as other terms will generally be lower order
when these probabilities are small.) For example, in a configuration we use in our
experiments below, we choose k = 5, m/n = 8, and γ = 1/10; in this case, the
probability of a specific valid key being unrecoverable is approximately 8.16 · 10−7 ,
which may be quite suitable for practice.
     For a more theoretical asymptotic analysis, suppose instead that there are only n1−β
invalid keys. Then if each key uses at least d1/βe + 1 hash functions, with high prob-
ability every valid key will have at least one hash location that does not coincide with


                                            13
a invalid cell. This alone does not guarantee reconstructing the valid key-value pairs,
but we can extend this idea to show LIST E NTRIES can provably successfully obtain all
valid keys even with n1−β invalid keys; by using k = d1/βe + 4 hash functions, we
can guarantee with high probability that every valid key has at least 3 hash locations
without an invalid cell. (One can raise the probability to any inverse polynomial in n
by changing the constant 4 as desired.) Indeed, we can determine the induced distri-
bution for the number of neighbors that are unpoisoned cells for the valid keys, but the
important fact is that the number of keys with k hashes to unpoisoned cells in n − o(n).
It follows from the standard analysis of random cores (e.g., see Molloy [25]) that the
same threshold as for the original setting with k hash functions applies. Hence the
number of cells needed will again be linear in n (with the coefficient dependent on β)
in order to guarantee successful listing of keys with high probability. This yields the
following theorem:
Theorem 2: Suppose there are n1−β invalid keys. Let k = d1/βe + 4. Then if m >
(ck + )n for some  > 0, LIST E NTRIES succeeds with high probability.
    While this asymptotic analysis provides some useful insights, namely that full re-
covery is practical, in practice we expect the analysis above based on setting γ so that
the number of invalid keys is γn will prove more useful for parameter setting and pre-
dicting performance.

Extensions to Duplicates Interestingly, using the same approach as for extraneous
deletions, our IBLT can handle the setting where the same key-value pair is inserted
multiple times. Essentially, this means the IBLT is robust to duplicates, or can also
be used to obtain a count for key-value pairs that are inserted multiple times. We
again use the additional hashkeySum and valueSum fields. When the count field is
j for the cell, we take the keySum, hashkeySum, and valueSum fields and divide
them by j to obtain the proposed key, value, and corresponding hash. (Here, note
we cannot use XORs in place of sums in our algorithms.) If the key hash matches,
we assume that we have found the right key and return the lookup value or list the
key-value pair accordingly, depending on whether a GET or LIST E NTRIES operation is
being performed. If it is possible to have the same key appear with multiple values, as
above, then we must also make use of the hashvalueSum fields, dividing it by j and
using it to check that the value is correct as well. For the listing operation, the IBLT
deletes j copies of the key-value pair from the other cells.6 The point here is that a
key that appears multiple times, just as a key that is deleted rather than inserted, can be
handled without significant change to the decoding approach.
    The one potential issue with duplicate key-value pairs is in the case of word-value
overflow for the memory locations containing the sum; in case of overflow, it may be
that one does not detect that the key hash matches (and similarly for the hashvalue-
Sum fields). In practice this may limit the number of duplicates that can be tolerated;
however, for small numbers of duplicates and suitably sized memory fields, overflow
   6 Note that here we are making use of the assumption that the hash locations are distinct for a key;

otherwise, the count for the number of copies at this location might not match the number of copies of the
key in all the other locations.



                                                   14
will be a rare occurrence (that would require large numbers of keys to hash to the same
cell, a provably probabilistically unlikely event).

Fault Tolerance to Lost Memory Subblocks We offer one additional way this struc-
ture proves resilient to various possible faults. Suppose that the structure is indeed set
up with k different memory subblocks, one for each hash function. Conceivably, one
could lose an entire subblock, and still be able to recover all the keys in a listing with
high probability, with only a reduction in the success probability of a GET (as long as
k − 1 hashes with a smaller range space remains sufficient for listing). In some sense,
this is because the system is arguably overdesigned; obtaining high lookup success
probability when n is less than the threshold t requires a large number of empty cells,
and this space is far more than is needed for decoding.

An Example Application As an example of where these ideas might be used, we
return to our mirror site application. An IBLT B from Alice can be used by Bob to find
filename-checksum (key-value) pairs where his filename has a different checksum than
Alice’s. After deleting all his key-value pairs, he lists out the contents of B to find files
that he or Alice has that the other does not. The IBLT might not be empty at this point,
however, as the listing process might not have been able to complete due to poisoned
cells, where deletions were done for keys with values different than Alice’s values. To
discover these, Bob can re-insert each of his key-value pairs, in turn, to find any that
may unpoison a cell in B (where he immediately deletes ones that don’t lead to a new
unpoisoned cell). If a new unpoisoned cell is found found (using the G1 hash function
as a check), then Bob can then remove a key-value pair with the same key as his but
with a different value (that is, with Alice’s value). Note Bob may then also be able to
possibly perform more listings of keys that might have been previously unrecovered
because of the poisoned cells. Repeating this will discover with high probability all the
key-value pairs where Alice and Bob differ.


4    Space-Saving for an Invertible Bloom Lookup Table
Up to this point, we have not been concerned with minimizing space for our IBLT
structure, noting that it can be done in linear space. Nevertheless, there are a variety
of techniques available for reducing the space required, generally at the expense of
additional computation and shuffling of memory, while still keeping constant amortized
or worst-case time bounds on various operations. Whether such efforts are worthwhile
depends on the setting; in some applications space may be the overriding issue, while
in others speed or even simplicity might be more relevant. We briefly point to some of
the previous work that can offer further insights.
    IBLTs, like other Bloom filter structures, often have a great deal of wasted space
corresponding to zero entries that can be compressed or fixed-length space required
for fields like the count field that can be made variable-length depending on the value.
This wasted space can be compressed away using techniques for keeping compressed
forms of arrays, including those for storing arrays of variable-length strings. Such
mechanisms are explored in for example [4, 28, 34] and can be applied here.


                                             15
    A simpler, standard approach (saving less space) is to use quotienting, whereby
the hash value for a key determines a bucket and an additional quotient value that can
be stored. Quotienting can naturally be used with the IBLT to reduce the space used
for storing for example the keySum or the hashkeySum values. Also, as previously
mentioned, in settings without multiple copies of the same key-value pair, we can use
XORs in place of sums to save space.
    Finally, we recall that the space requirements arise because of the desire for high
accuracy for GET operations, not because of the LIST E NTRIES operation. If one is
willing to give up lookup accuracy—which may be the case if, for example, one expects
the system to be overloaded much of the time—then less space is needed to maintain
successful listing.


5    Simulations and Experiments
We have run a number of simulations to test the IBLT structure and our analysis. In
these experiments we have not focused on running time; a practical implementation
could require significant optimization. Also, we have not concerned ourselves with
issues of word-value overflow. Because of this, there is no need to simulate the data
structure becoming overloaded and then deleting key-value pairs, as the state after dele-
tions would be determined entirely by the key-value pairs in the system. Instead, we
focus on the success probability of the listing of keys and, to a lesser extent, on the
success probability for a GET operation. Overall, we have found that the IBLT works
quite effectively and the performance matches our theoretical analysis. We provide a
few example results. In all of the experiments here, we have chosen to use five hash
functions.
    First, our calculated asymptotic thresholds for decoding from Table 1 are quite ac-
curate even for reasonably small values. For example, in the setting where there are no
duplicate keys or extraneous deletions of keys, we repeatedly performed 20,000 simula-
tions with 10,000 keys, and varied the number of cells. Table 1 suggests an asymptotic
threshold for listing all entries near 14,250. As shown in Figure 1(a), around this point
we see a dramatic increase in the average number of key-value pairs recovered when
performing our LIST E NTRIES operation. In fact, at 14,500 cells only two trials failed to
recover all key-value pairs, and with 14,600 cells or more all trials successfully recover
all key-value pairs. We performed an additional 200,000 trials with 14,600 cells, and
again all trials succeeded. In Figure 1(b), we consider 20,000 simulations with 100,000
keys, where the corresponding threshold should be near 142,500. With more keys, we
expect tighter concentration around the threshold, and indeed with 144,000 cells or
more all trials successfully recover all key-value pairs. We performed an additional
200,000 trials with with 144,000 cells, and again all trials succeeded.
    We acknowledge that more simulations would be required to obtain detailed bounds
on the probability of failure to recover all key-value pairs for specific values of the
number of key-value pairs and cells. This is equivalent to the well-studied problem
of “finite-length analysis” for related families of error-correcting codes. Dynamic pro-
gramming techniques, as discussed in [21] and subsequent follow-on work, can be
applied to obtain such bounds.


                                           16
     Our next tests of the IBLT allow duplicate keys with the same value and extrane-
ous deletions, but without keys with multiple values. Our analysis suggests this should
work exactly as with no duplicate or extraneous deletions, and our simulations verify
this. In these simulations, we had each key result in a duplicate with probability 1/5,
and each key result in a deletion in place of an insertion with probability 1/5. Using
a check on key and value fields, in 20,000 simulations with 10,000 keys, 80,000 cells,
and 5 hash functions, a complete listing was obtained every time, and GET operations
were successful on average for 97.83 percent of the keys, matching the standard anal-
ysis for a Bloom filter. Results were similar with 20,000 runs with 100,000 keys and
800,000 cells, again with complete recovery each time and GET operations successful
on average for 97.83 percent of the keys.
     Finally, we tested the IBLT with keys that erroneously obtain multiple values. As
expected, these keys can prevent recovery of other key-value pairs during listing, but
do not impact the success probability of GET operations for other keys. For example,
again using a check on key and value fields, in 20,000 simulations with 10,000 keys of
which 500 had multiple values, 80,000 cells, and 5 hash functions, the 9500 remaining
key-value pairs were recovered 19,996 times; the remaining 4 times all but one of the
9500 key-value pairs was recovered. With 1000 keys with multiple values, the remain-
ing key-value pairs were recovered 19,872 times, and again the remaining 128 times
all but one of the 9000 key-value pairs was recovered. The average success rate for
GET operations remained 97.83 percent on the valid keys in both cases, as would be
expected. We note that with 10,000 keys with 1,000 with multiple values, our previous
back-of-the-envelope calculation showed that each valid key would fail with probabil-
ity roughly 8.16·10−7 ; hence, with 9,000 other keys, assuming independence we would
estimate the probability of complete recovery at approximately 0.9927, closely match-
ing our experimental results. More detailed results are give in Figures 2(a) and 2(b),
where we vary the number keys with multiple values for two settings: 10,000 keys and
80,000 cells, and 100,000 keys and 800,000 cells. The results are based on 20,000
trials. As can be seen complete recovery is possible with large numbers of multiple-
valued keys in both cases, but naturally the probability of complete recovery becomes
worse with larger numbers of keys even if the percentage of invalid keys is the same.
     We emphasize that even when complete recovery does not occur in this setting,
generally almost all keys with a single value can be recovered. For example, in Table 2
we consider three experiments. The first is for 10,000 keys, 80,000 cells, and 1,000
keys with duplicate values. The second is the same but with 2,000 keys with duplicate
values. The third is for 100,000 keys, 800,000 cells, and 10,000 keys with duplicate
values. Over all 20,000 trials for each experiment, in no case were more than 3 valid
keys unrecovered. The main point of Table 2 is that with suitable design parameters,
even when complete recovery is not possible because of invalid keys, the degradation is
minor. We suspect this level of robustness may be useful for some applications where
almost-complete recovery is acceptable.




                                          17
                                            Unrecovered Keys
                                      0         1       2    3
                  Experiment 1     99.360     0.640 0.000 0.000
                  Experiment 2     83.505    14.885 1.520 0.090
                  Experiment 3     92.800     6.915 0.265 0.020


       Table 2: Percentage of trials where 1, 2, and 3 keys are left unrecovered.


6    Conclusion and Future Work
We have given an extension to the Bloom filter data structure to key-value pairs and
the ability to list out its contents. This structure is deceptively simple, but is able
to achieve functionalities and efficiencies that appear to be unique in many respects,
based on our analysis derived from recent results on 2-cores in hypergraphs. One
possible direction for future work includes whether one can easily include methods for
allowing for multiple values as a natural condition instead of an error.

Acknowledgments
Michael Goodrich was supported in part by the National Science Foundation under
grants 0724806, 0713046, 0847968, and 0953071. Michael Mitzenmacher was sup-
ported in part by the National Science Foundation under grants IIS-0964473, CCF-
0915922 and CNS-0721491, and in part by grants from Yahoo! Research, Cisco, Inc.,
and Google.


References
 [1] N. Alon and A. Nussboim. k-wise independent random graphs. In Proceedings
     of the 49th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science,
     pages 813–822, 2008.
 [2] M. Bawa, R. J. Bayardo, Jr, R. Agrawal, and J. Vaidya. Privacy-preserving
     indexing of documents on the network. The VLDB Journal, 18(4):837–856,
     2009.

 [3] S. M. Bellovin and W. R. Cheswick. Privacy-enhanced searches using encrypted
     Bloom filters. Technical Report CUCS-034-07, Columbia University, Dept. of
     Computer Science, 2007.
 [4] D. Blandford and G. Blelloch. Compact dictionaries for variable-length keys and
     data with applications. ACM Transactions on Algorithms (TALG), 4(2):1–25,
     2008.
 [5] B. Bloom. Space/time trade-offs in hash coding with allowable errors.
     Communications of the ACM, 13(7):422–426, 1970.


                                            18
 [6] F. Bonomi, M. Mitzenmacher, R. Panigrahy, S. Singh, and G. Varghese. Beyond
     Bloom filters: From approximate membership checks to approximate state
     machines. ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, 36(4):326,
     2006.
 [7] F. Bonomi, M. Mitzenmacher, R. Panigrahy, S. Singh, and G. Varghese. An
     improved construction for counting Bloom filters. In Proceedings of the
     European Symposium on Algorithms (ESA), volume 4168 of LNCS, pages
     684–695, 2006.
 [8] A. Broder and M. Mitzenmacher. Network applications of Bloom filters: A
     survey. Internet Mathematics, 1(4):485–509, 2004.

 [9] B. Chazelle, J. Kilian, R. Rubinfeld, and A. Tal. The Bloomier filter: an efficient
     data structure for static support lookup tables. In Proceedings of the Fifteenth
     Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, pages 30–39, 2004.
[10] S. Chen, R. Wang, X. Wang, and K. Zhang. Side-channel leaks in web
     applications: a reality today, a challenge tomorrow. In Proceedings of the 31st
     IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2010.
[11] B. Chor, E. Kushilevitz, O. Goldreich, and M. Sudan. Private information
     retrieval. J. ACM, 45:965–981, November 1998.
[12] S. Cohen and Y. Matias. Spectral Bloom filters. In Proceedings of the 2003
     ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, pages
     241–252, 2003.
[13] G. Cormode and S. Muthukrishnan. An improved data stream summary: the
     count-min sketch and its applications. J. Algorithms, 55:58–75, April 2005.

[14] R. Darling and J. Norris. Differential equation approximations for Markov
     chains. Probability Surveys, 5:37–79, 2008.
[15] L. Devroye and P. Morin. Cuckoo hashing: further analysis. Inf. Process. Lett.,
     86(4):215–219, 2003.
[16] M. Dietzfelbinger, A. Goerdt, M. Mitzenmacher, A. Montanari, R. Pagh, and
     M. Rink. Tight thresholds for cuckoo hashing via XORSAT. In Proceedings of
     ICALP, pages 213–225, 2010.
[17] D. Eppstein and M. T. Goodrich. Straggler identification in round-trip data
     streams via Newton’s identities and invertible Bloom filters. IEEE Transactions
     on Knowledge and Data Engineering, to appear.

[18] E.-J. Goh. Secure indexes. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2003/216, 2003.
     http://eprint.iacr.org/2003/216/.
[19] O. Goldreich and R. Ostrovsky. Software protection and simulation on oblivious
     RAMs. J. ACM, 43(3):431–473, 1996.


                                          19
[20] M. T. Goodrich and M. Mitzenmacher. MapReduce parallel cuckoo hashing and
     oblivious RAM simulations. CoRR, abs/1007.1259, 2010.
[21] R. Karp, M. Luby, and A. Shokrollahi. Finite length analysis of LT codes. In
     Proceedings of the International Symposium on Information Theory, page 39,
     2004.
[22] Y. Lu, A. Montanari, B. Prabhakar, S. Dharmapurikar, and A. Kabbani. Counter
     braids: a novel counter architecture for per-flow measurement. In Proceedings of
     the 2008 ACM SIGMETRICS International Conference on Measurement and
     Modeling of Computer Systems, pages 121–132, 2008.
[23] M. Luby, M. Mitzenmacher, M. Shokrollahi, and D. Spielman. Efficient erasure
     correcting codes. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 47(2):569–584,
     2001.
[24] M. Mitzenmacher and S. Vadhan. Why simple hash functions work: exploiting
     the entropy in a data stream. In Proceedings of the Nineteenth Annual
     ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, pages 746–755, 2008.
[25] M. Molloy. The pure literal rule threshold and cores in random hypergraphs. In
     Proceedings of the fifteenth annual ACM-SIAM symposium on Discrete
     algorithms, pages 672–681. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics,
     2004.
[26] M. Naor, G. Segev, and U. Wieder. History-independent cuckoo hashing. In
     Proceedings of ICALP, pages 631–642, 2008.
[27] R. Nojima and Y. Kadobayashi. Cryptographically secure Bloom-filters. Trans.
     Data Privacy, 2(2):131–139, 2009.
[28] A. Pagh, R. Pagh, and S. Rao. An optimal Bloom filter replacement. In
     Proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete
     Algorithms, page 829, 2005.
[29] R. Pagh and F. F. Rodler. Cuckoo hashing. J. Algorithms, 51(2):122–144, 2004.
[30] J. J. Parekh, K. Wang, and S. J. Stolfo. Privacy-preserving payload-based
     correlation for accurate malicious traffic detection. In LSAD ’06: Proceedings of
     the 2006 SIGCOMM Workshop on Large-scale Attack Defense, pages 99–106,
     2006.
[31] B. Pinkas and T. Reinman. Oblivious RAM revisited. In T. Rabin, editor,
     Advances in Cryptology (CRYPTO), volume 6223 of Lecture Notes in Computer
     Science, pages 502–519. Springer, 2010.
[32] E. Price. Efficient sketches for the set query problem. CoRR, abs/1007.1253,
     2010.
[33] F. Putze, P. Sanders, and J. Singler. Cache-, hash-, and space-efficient Bloom
     filters. J. Exp. Algorithmics, 14:4.4–4.18, 2009.


                                          20
[34] R. Raman and S. Rao. Succinct dynamic dictionaries and trees. In Proceeding of
     ICALP, pages 357–368, 2003.
[35] H. Song, S. Dharmapurikar, J. Turner, and J. Lockwood. Fast hash table lookup
     using extended Bloom filter: An aid to network processing. In Proceedings of
     SIGCOMM, pages 181–192, 2005.

[36] M. Stonebraker. In search of database consistency. Commun. ACM, 53:8–9,
     October 2010.
[37] S. Yekhanin. Private information retrieval. Commun. ACM, 53:68–73, April
     2010.




                                        21
                                                                     Recovery for 10000 Keys

                                             100




                 Avg. Percentage Recovered
                                             80



                                             60



                                             40



                                             20



                                              0
                                                   13800    14000         14200         14400    14600    14800
                                                                          Size of Table

                                                                (a) 10,000 keys

                                                                    Recovery for 100000 Keys

                                             100




                 Avg. Percentage Recovered
                                             80



                                             60



                                             40



                                             20



                                              0
                                                   138000   140000        142000        144000   146000   148000
                                                                          Size of Table

                                                                (b) 100,000 keys



Figure 1: Percentage of key-value pairs recovered around the threshold. Slightly over
the theoretical asymptotic threshold, we obtain full recovery of all key-value pairs with
LIST E NTRIES on all simulations. Each data point represents the average of 20,000
simulations.




                                                                           22
                                                                     Recovery with Damaged Keys
                                                      1




                Percentage Incomplete Recovery
                                                 0.8



                                                 0.6



                                                 0.4



                                                 0.2



                                                      0
                                                          0    200        400        600          800    1000
                                                                           Damaged Keys

                                                                      (a) 10,000 keys

                                                                     Recovery with Damaged Keys
                                                 10




                Percentage Incomplete Recovery
                                                 8



                                                 6



                                                 4



                                                 2



                                                 0
                                                      0       2000       4000        6000         8000   10000
                                                                           Damaged Keys

                                                                     (b) 100,000 keys



Figure 2: Percentage of trials with incomplete recovery with “damaged” keys that have
multiple values. Each data point represents the average of 20,000 simulations.




                                                                             23
• INSERT(x, y):
     for each hi (x) value, for i = 1, . . . , k do
       add 1 to T [hi (x)].count
       add x to T [hi (x)].keySum
       add y to T [hi (x)].valueSum
       add G1 (x) to T [hi (x)].hashkeySum
     end for
• DELETE(x, y):
     for each hi (x) value, for i = 1, . . . , k do
       subtract 1 from T [hi (x)].count
       subtract x from T [hi (x)].keySum
       subtract y from T [hi (x)].valueSum
       subtract G1 (x) to T [hi (x)].hashkeySum
     end for

• GET(x):
     for each hi (x) value, for i = 1, . . . , k do
       if T [hi (x)].count = 0 and T [hi (x)].keySum = 0 and
       T [hi (x)].hashkeySum = 0 then
          return null
       else if T [hi (x)].count = 1 and T [hi (x)].keySum = x and
       T [hi (x)].hashkeySum = G1 (x) then
          return T [hi (x)].valueSum
       else if T [hi (x)].count = −1 and T [hi (x)].keySum = −x and
       T [hi (x)].hashkeySum = −G1 (x) then
          return −T [hi (x)].valueSum
       end if
     end for
     return “not found”

• LIST E NTRIES():
      while there is an i ∈ [1, m] such that T [i].count = 1 or T [i].count = −1
      do
         if T [hi (x)].count        =     1 and T [hi (x)].hashkeySum           =
         G1 (T [hi (x)].keySum) then
            add the pair, (T [i].keySum , T [i].valueSum), to the output list
            call DELETE(T [i].keySum, T [i].valueSum)
         else if T [hi (x)].count = −1 and −T [hi (x)].hashkeySum =
         G1 (−T [hi (x)].keySum) then
            add the pair, (−T [i].keySum , −T [i].valueSum), to the output list
            call INSERT(−T [i].keySum, −T [i].valueSum)
         end if
      end while


      Figure 3: Revised pseudo-code for tolerating extraneous deletions.

                                        24
